# Breakfast Breads

Blueberry Coffeecake

Note: Make Topping first since it must be refrigerated for 30 minutes
before adding to cake.

2 cups all-purpose flour 1 teaspoon baking powder

1 teaspoon baking soda Dash salt

1 cup sugar ½ cup butter, softened

2 eggs 1 cup sour cream

1 teaspoon vanilla 2 cups blueberries

Topping

Grease a 9x13\" pan. Sift flour, baking powder, baking soda and salt.
Set aside. Beat together butter and sugar; add eggs, sour cream and
vanilla; mix well. Add dry ingredients; mix well. Fold in blueberries;
pour in pan. Sprinkle *Topping* (below) over batter. Bake 350º for 40-45
minutes.

*Topping:* Mix ½ cup sugar and 1 teaspoon cinnamon; cut in 4 tablespoons
butter until crumbly. Add ¼ cup chopped pecans. Refrigerate 30 minutes
before adding to cake.

Low-Fat Apple Cinnamon Muffins

No-stick cooking spray ¾ cup skim milk

1/3 cup non-fat plain yogurt 2 egg whites

1 whole egg 2 teaspoons vanilla

Zest of one lemon 1/3 cup dark brown sugar, firmly packed

1 ½ teaspoons cinnamon 1 ½ teaspoons baking soda

¾ teaspoon baking powder 1 medium apple, peeled,cored & chopped

Heat oven to 375º. Spray with no-stick cooking spray on the bottoms of
12 medium muffin cups. In a large bowl beat milk, yogurt, egg whites,
egg, vanilla and lemon zest. In a separate bowl combine flour, sugar,
cinnamon, baking soda and baking powder. Fold dry ingredients into wet
until just moist. Stir in apple. Divide batter among muffin cups. Bake
18 to 20 minutes or until toothpick inserted into center comes our
clean. Immediately remove from pan and cool on wire rack. Makes 1 dozen.
(102 calories and 1gram fat per muffin.)

Applesauce Bran Muffins

1 ½ cups Nabisco 100% Bran 1 ½ cups applesauce

1 egg ¼ cup butter, melted

½ cup firmly packed light brown sugar 1 ½ cups all-purpose flour

1 tablespoon baking powder 1 teaspoon cinnamon

½ cup seedless raisins, optional Apple Sauce Glaze, recipe follows

Mix bran, applesauce, egg, butter and brown sugar; let stand 5 minutes.
In large bowl, blend flour, baking powder and cinnamon; stir in bran
mixture just until blended (batter will be lumpy). Stir in raisins, if
desired. Spoon batter into 12 greased 2-1/2\" muffin-pan cups. Bake at
400º for 15 to 18 minutes or until done. Cool slightly. Drizzlew with
*Apple-Sauce Glaze*; serve warm. Makes 1 dozen.

*Apple-Sauce Glaze:* Blend ½ cup confectioner\'s sugar into 1 tablespoon
applesauce until smooth.

Apple Raisin Bran Muffins

1 ½ cups shreds of wheat bran cereal 1 cup skim milk

¼ cup butter, melted ½ cup honey

1 large cooking apple, peeled, cored and ¾ cup raisins

grated (1-1/2 cups) 1 large egg, well beaten

1 teaspoon cinnamon 1 ¼ cups all-purpose flour

2 teaspoons baking powder ½ teaspoon baking soda

Heat oven to 400º. Lightly grease 12 muffin cups. In a large bowl, soak
cereal in milk for 5 minutes. Stir in butter, honey, apple, raisins, egg
and cinnamon. In another bowl, combine remaining ingredients. With a
rubber spatula, fold flour into apple bran mixture just enough to
moisten. Do not over mix. Evenly distribute among 12 muffin cups. Bake
20 minutes or until done.

Each muffin contains about 169 calories, 4.3 grams fat and 23 milligrams
cholesterol.

Blueberry Tea Muffins

2 eggs, separated ½ cup skim milk

2 tablespoons sugar (or sugar substitute) ¾ cup flour

1 teaspoon baking powder ½ teaspoon salt

1 cup blueberries

Beat egg yolks, milk, sugar or substitute, flour and baking powder
together until smooth Combine salt and egg whites. Whip until stiff.
Fold in batter carefully. Add blueberries last, stirring in gently.
Spoon into a nonstick 12-cup muffin pan. Bake in a preheated 372º oven
for 15 to 20 minutes, until lightly browned.

54 calories each without sugar; 62 calories with sugar.

Refrigerator Bran Muffins

Cypress Inn Recipe

1 (15-oz.) box Bran cereal 3 cups sugar

5 cups all-purpose flour 5 teaspoons baking soda

2 teaspoons salt 2 teaspoons cinnamon

2 teaspoons cloves 2 teaspoons nutmeg

4 eggs 1 cup vegetable oil

1 quart buttermilk 2 teaspoons vanilla

Preheat oven to 400º. Mix dry ingredients togther in large bowl. Stir in
remaining ingredients and mix well. Fill muffin tins 2/3 full. Bake for
15 minutes.

Batter will last up to 4 weeks in refrigerator (sealed tightly). Works
great for regular size or small muffins.

Bran Muffins

1 cup sifted flour ½ teaspoon salt

3 teaspoons baking powder 1 cup Nabisco100% Bran

1 cup milk 3 tablespoons butter, softened

¼ cup sugar 1 egg, lightly beaten

Sift flour, salt and baking powder. Add Bran to milk; let stand 5
minutes. Beat butter with sugar until light. Add egg and beat until
smooth Stir in bran. Add flour mixture and stir just until mixed. Fill
greased muffin pans 2/3 full. Bake in hot oven (400º) for 25-30 minutes.
Makes 10-12 muffins.

Six-Week Bran Muffin Mix

Ruth Stinson

1 box (15-oz.) Kelloggs Raisin Bran or 1 cup vegetable oil

samesize Bran Flakes 3 cups sugar

5 cups all-purpose flour 5 teaspoons baking soda

4 eggs, beaten 1 teaspoon salt

1 quart buttermilk 2 to 2 ½ cups raisins (more if Bran Flakes

5 cups walnuts (or pecans), chopped are used

3 cans (20-oz. each) crushed pineapple (well-drained)

Mix dry ingredients, add raisins and nuts; add eggs, oil, buttermilk and
pineapple. Bake at 300º for 30 minutes or until done. Store in
refrigerator in tightly covered bowl up to 6 weeks. These freeze well
after baking.

Breakfast Casserole Muffins

1 lb. sausage, browned and drained 6 eggs, beaten

2 cups milk 1 cup Bisquick Mix

½ teaspoon salt ¼ teaspoon pepper

2 cups grated cheese

Spray muffin tins with cooking spray. Place cooked sausage in muffin
tins. Mix eggs, milk, Bisquick Mix, salt and pepper. Pour over sausage.
Top with grated cheese. Bake at 350º for 20-25 minutes. Freezes great.
Can thaw in microwave in 30 seconds.

Cranberry Pecan Muffins

1 ½ cups chopped cranberries ¼ cup sugar

3 cups sifted all-purpose flour 4 ½ teaspoons baking powder

½ teaspoon salt 1 cup sugar

½ cup butter 2 teaspoons grated lemon rind

2 eggs 1 cup milk

1 cup pecans, chopped 2 teaspoons grated lemon rind

Combine coarsely chopped cranberries and 1/4 cup sugar in small bowl;
let stand while preparing batter. Sift flour, baking powder, salt and
1cup sugar in a large bowl. Cut in butter with a pastry blender until
mixture is crumbly. Stir in pecans and lemon rind. Beat eggs in small
bowl until light; stir in milk. Add liquid all at once to flour mixture,
stirring just until moist. Fold in cranberry mixture. Spoon batter into
greased medium-size muffin pan cups, filling each 2/3 full. Bake in 400º
oven for 20 minutes, or until golden brown. Remove from pans to wire
racks. Serve warm. ****

Popovers

2 eggs 1 cup milk

1 tablespoon butter, melted 1 cup sifted all-purpose flour

½ teaspoon salt

Generously butter eight 5-ounce custard cups; place on a jelly-roll pan.
Beat eggs in a medium-size glass bowl until frothy. Stir in milk and
butter; beat until blended. Beat in flour and salt until batter is
smooth. Ladle into prepared cups, filling each about half full. Bake in
a hot over (425º) for 35 minutes. Cut slit in side of each popover to
allow steam to escape. Retun to oven and bake 5 minutes longer, or until
popovers are deep brown and very crisp. Serve with butter and jelly.

Savory Cheddar Muffins

2 cups all-purpose flour 3 ½ teaspoons baking powder

1 teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon paprika

¼ cup butter 1 egg

1 cup milk 1 cup Cheddar cheese, grated

2/3 cups raisins

Sift flour with baking powder, salt and paprika. Cut in butter until
mixture resembles fine crumbs. Stir in remaining ingredients just until
moistened. Spoon into well-greased muffin pans. Bake at 425º for 25
minutes. Serves 12.

Golden Oatmeal Muffins

1 cup sifted all-purpose flour 1 tablespoon baking powder

½ teaspoon salt ¼ cup sugar

1 cup oats, uncooked 3 tablespoons vegetable oil

1 egg, beaten 1 cup milk

Sift together flour, baking powder, salt and sugar into bowl. Stir in
oats. Add remaining ingredients; stir only until dry ingredients are
moistened. Fill greased medium-sized muffin cups 2/3 full. Bake in
preheated oven(425º) about15 minutes. Serve piping hot. Makes 1 dozen.

Pumpkin-Carrot Spice Muffins

Karen Weinrib, Homewood, Alabama

1 box carrot or spice cake mix 6 tablespoons egg substitute (or 3 egg
whites)

1can pumpkin (15-oz.) 1/3 cup water

2/3 cup golden raisins

Preheat over to 350º. Spray 20 muffin tins with non-stick cooking spray.
Combine cake mix, pumpkin, egg substitute and water. Beat with mixer on
low for 30 seconds. Scrape bowl; then beat on medium for two minutes.
Stir in golden raisins. Spoon into muffin tin. Bake for 18-20 minutes.
Remove from pan and cool on wire racks.

Sweet Rolls (Monkey Bread)

> Jean Hill

18 frozen dinner rolls 1 package butterscotch instant pudding

1 stick butter 1 cup brown sugar

1 cup pecans

The night before you will cook these, put the frozen rolls in a greased
tube spring pan. Sprinkle pudding, sugar and butter over the rolls.
Cover and let sit on counter overnight. In A.M. bake at 350° for 25
minutes. Remove while warm and turn upside-down on plate. (This makes
ring.)

Old-Fashioned Cinnamon Rolls

4 ¾ to 5 ¼ cps all-purpose flour 1 package active dry yeast

1 cup milk 1/3 cup butter

1/3 cup sugar 3 eggs

3 tablespoons butter, melted 2/3 cup sugar

2 teaspoons cinnamon 1 recipe Creamy Glaze (below)

½ teaspoon salt

1\. In a large bowl, combine 2 ¼ cups flour and yeast. In a saucepan,
heat and stir milk, butter, sugar and salt just until warm and butter
almost melts. Add to flour mixture; add eggs. Beat on low speed for 30
seconds, scraping bowl. Beat on high speed for 3 minutes. Stir in as
much of the remaining flour as you can.

2\. On a lightly floured surface, knead in enough of the remaining flour
to make a moderately soft dough that is smooth and elastic (3-5 minutes
total). Shape into a ball. Place in a greased bowl, turning once. Cover,
let rise in a warm place until double in size (1 hour).

3\. Punch down dough. Turn out onto a lightly floured surface; divide in
half. Cover, let rest 10 minutes. Lightly grease two 9x13x1 ½ inch
baking pans. Roll each half of the dough onto a 12x8 rectangle. Brush
with melted butter. Combine the 2/3 cup sugar and the cinnamon; sprinkle
over rectangles. Starting from a long side, roll up each rectangle into
a spiral. Seal seams. Cut each spiral into 12 slices. Place slices cut
sides down, in prepared pans.

4\. Cover dough loosely with plastic wrap, leaving room for rolls to
rise. Chill for at least 2 hours or up to 24 hours. Uncover, let stand
at room temperature for 30 minutes.

5\. Preheat oven to 375°. Break surface bubbles with a greased
toothpick. Bake for 20-25 minutes or until light brown. If necessary to
prevent overbrowning, cover rolls loosely with foil for the last 5-10
minutes of baking. Remove from oven. Cool 1 minutes. Carefully invert
rolls onto wire rack. Cool slightly. Invert again onto a serving
platter. Drizzle with Creamy Glaze. Serve warm. Makes 24 rolls.

*Creamy Glaze*: Mix 1 ¼ cups sifted powdered sugaqr, 1 teaspoon
light-colored corn syrup and ½ teaspoon vanilla. Stir in enough
half-and-half or light cream (1-2 tablespoons) to make of drizzling
consistency.

AND IF YOU MADE IT THROUGH THIS, GOOD FOR YOU. IF NOT, GO TO BAKERY AND
BUY THEIR CINNAMON ROLLS! OR See the following recipe for much easier
cinnamon rolls.

Rich Cinnamon Bites

> Mary Glen Grant

1 (8-oz.) cream cheese, softened ½ cup sugar

1 egg yolk 1 king-sized loaf white bread (cheap)

1 cup butter, melted 1 ½ cups sugar

2 teaspoons cinnamon

Remove crusts from bread (stack up 4-6 lices and cut off at once.) Roll
bread slices with rolling pin to get very thin. (I roll 2 at a time.)
Mix cream cheese, egg yolk and ½ cup sugar. Beat with mixer. In a
shallow dish, mix sugar and cinnamon thoroughly. Set aside. Take creamy
mixture and spread on one side of bread. (I put all the bread slices on
wax paper on the counter and spread all the mixture over the bread, so I
can use all mixture and cover each bread.) Dip each rolled slice in
butter and then in mixture of sugar and cinnamon (be sure and have this
mixed ahead of time to have it ready when butter is melted.) Place on a
cookie sheet and freeze, uncovered, for several hours. Take from freezer
and cut each roll in 4 slices; put in package back in freeder until
ready to use. You may take out only what you need at the time and bake.
To bake, place frozen pieces on nonstick cookie sheet. Bake in preheated
over at 400° for 12 minutes.

Bill's Cheese Biscuits

2 cups White Lily self-rising flour 1 ¼ cup buttermilk

2 tablespoons Crisco oil ¼ cup grated cheddar cheese

Preheat oven to 450°. Mix ingredients and drop mixture by spoonful on a
greased cookie sheet. Bake about 10 minutes; brush with butter. Bake
until golden brown.

Easy Sour Cream Biscuits

2 cups Bisquick 8 oz. sour cream

1 stick butter, melted

Mix all ingredients well. Bake in mini or regular muffin tins at
425-450° until lightly brown, about 10-15 minutes, depending on size of
tins.

Angel Biscuits

6 cups self-rising flour ½ cup sugar

1 teaspoon soda 1 cup solid Crisco shortening

2 packages yeast 1 ½ cups lukewarm water

2 cups buttermilk

Combine flour, sugar and soda. Cut in solid crisco. Dissolve yeast in
lukewarm water. Add this and buttermilk to flour. Mix well. Add more
flour if too soupy (about ½ - 1 cup). Pour ½ of the mixture onto a
well-floured clean cloth (or wax paper). Knead a few seconds until in a
workable ball. (Work more flour in until it can be handled and rolled
out.) Do not get too dry or stiff; the looser the dough and the less
handled, you will get tenderer biscuits. Roll out; fold and roll until
¼ - ½ inch thick. Cut and bake at 450° until golden brown. Rub tops with
butter. Let cool a bit and freeze. When ready to use, wrap in foil and
heat.

Spoon Rolls

> Sheila Ramsey

1 package yeast 2 cups very warm water

1 and ½ sticks butter, melted ¼ cup sugar

1 egg 4 cups self-rising flour

Place yeast in water. Cream butter and sugar and beaten egg. Add yeast
and water to cream mixture. Add flour, all at once, and stir until well
mixed. Place in an airtight containter and refrigerate. Be sure and use
a large bowl -- this will swell.

To cook, drop in well-greased muffin tins and bake at 350° for 20-25
minutes or until golden brown. Makes 2 dozen rolls.

Rolls

> Frances Carr

1 cup butter 1 cup boiling water

½ cup sugar 2 packages yeast

2 eggs 1 teaspoon salt

6 cups flour 1 cup lukewarm water

Combine butter and sugar until light. Add boiling water. Cool. Dissolve
yeast in lukewarm water. Stir in well-beaten eggs. Stir flour and salt
into ingredients. Mix well. Refrigerate until used. Shape into balls.
Let double in size. Bake at 350° until golden brown.

Frazer's Rolls

> Ethel Field's Hot Rolls

This recipe makes the easiest and most irresitibly light rolls
imaginable.

1 cup milk ½ cup butter

½ cup sugar 2 teaspoons salt

1 cake or package dry, active yeast ¼ cup warm water

3 eggs 5 cups flour

Melted butter

Scald milk; add butter, sugar and salt. Let cool.

Dissolve yeast in the warm water. Add eggs to milk mixture, then add
yeast-water mixture. Add flour, mixing gradually as you add. Alowl dough
to rise in warm place.

After approximately 2 hours, punch down and shape. Pinch off small
quantity, roll on floured surface, and cut with biscuit cutter. Score in
center, dip half of roll in melted butter, and fold over as for Parker
House rolls. Let rolls rise 1 hour. Bake at 400° for 8 minutes. Yields:
6 dozen.

Mama's Muffins

> Barbara Duke - Panache at Rose Hill

2 cups self-rising flour (sifted) 1/3 cup oil

¼ cup sugar 2 eggs

Buttermilk, enough to make cake batter consistency

Combine all ingredients. Drop in greased muffin tins. Bake at 400° 15-20
minutes. Best piping hot fresh out of the oven. Even better with a
cinnamon-sugar mixture sprinkled on top (before baking). 12 large
muffins.

Icebox Muffins

1 cup boiling water 1 cup Raisin Bran

1 ½ cups sugar ½ cup salad oil

2 eggs 2 ½ cups flour

1 ½ teaspoon soda ½ teaspoon salt

2 cups buttermilk 3 cups Raisin Bran

Pour water over 1 cup Raisin Bran. Cream sugar and oil; add eggs. Sift
flour, soda and salt together; add alternately with buttermilk to
creamed mixture. Add Raisin Bran. Set in refrigerator until ready to
use. Grease muffin pans. Bake at 400° for 15-20 minutes. May be stored
in refrigerator up to 2 weeks (in airtight container). Stir well before
use. Cover each time used. Keep mixture cold. Yields: 4 dozen muffins.

Praline French Toast

1 loaf bakery breakfast bread 4 eggs beaten (or 1 cup egg substitute)

½ cup reduced-fat milk 1 teaspoon vanilla

3 tablespoons butter, divided ½ cup pecan halves

2 tablespoons sugar ¾ cup maple syrup

1\. Preheat oven to 200° (for holding). Cut eight ¾ inch slices from
bread. Combine eggs, milk and vanilla in shallow bowl.

2\. Preheat large nonstick saute pan on medium-hight for 2-3 minutes.
Add 1 tablespoon butter, swirl to coat pan. Dip 4 slices, one at a time
into egg mixture, coating both sides; remove and let excess drip off,
then place in pan and cook 2-3 minutes on each side or until golden.
(Place in oven on baking pan to keep warm.) Repeat with other 4 slices
and 1 tablespoon butter.

3\. Add remaining 1 tablespoon butter and pecans to pan. Cook and stir 3
minutes or until toasted. Increase heat to high and cook 2 minutes,
stirring constantly.

4\. Remove peacans form heat; stir in syrup. Serve over toast.

Baked French Toast

4 eggs ¼ cup orange juice

6 slices bread ¼ cup butter

2 tablespoons honey 2 tablespoons cinnamon

Mix together eggs and orange juice. In bottom of flat pan, melt butter,
honey and cinnamon. Put bread slices over this. Pour egg mixture on top.
Bake at 350° for 20-25 minutes.

Pancakes

1 cup flour ½ teaspoon salt

1 teaspoon baking powder 2-3 tablespoons sugar

1 egg yolk and white separated 2 tablespoons oil

½ cup milk

Sift dry ingredients together. Add egg yolk, oil and milk. Beat egg
white until stiff and fold in. Pour into skillet with Pam -- no oil.
Make individual pancakes. Turn when edges are bubbly.

Pumpkin Pancakes

4 eggs ½ cup canned pumpkin

1 teaspoon vanilla 2 tablespoons pure maple syrup

1 teaspoon pumpkin pie spice 1 teaspoon cinnamon

¼ teaspoon baking soda 2 tablespoons butter (plus more for

frying)

Whisk the eggs, canned pumpkin, vanilla and maple syrup together. Sift
the pumpkin pie spice, cinnamon and baking soda into wet ingredients.
Melt 2 tablespoons butter in a large skillet over medium heat. Mix
butter into batter. Grease skillet. Fry pancakes

Sausage over Pancake

1 (8-oz.) package brown and serve sausage links 1 cup pancake mix

¼ teaspoon cinnamon ¼ teaspoon nutmeg

½ cup milk 1 egg

½ cup chopped apple

Brown sausage according to package directions. In mixing bowl, combine
pancake mix, spices, milk and egg. Mix until batter is smooth. Add
apple. Pour into well greased 10x6x1 ½ inch dish. Arrange sausages on
top. Bake in preheated oven at 450° for 20 minutes. Serve hot with maple
syrup. Makes 4-5 servings.

Oven-Baked French Toast

1 loaf French bread 8 large eggs

1 ½ cups half-and-half 1 cup milk

1 teaspoon vanilla 2 tablespoons sugar

¼ teaspoon cinnamon ¼ teaspoon nutmeg

Praline Topping (recipe below)

Slice French bread into 20 1-inch slices. Arrange in a generously
buttered 9x13 inch baking dish. Arrange in two rows, overlapping the
slices. In a large bowl, combine eggs, milk, sugar, vanilla, cinnamon,
nutmeg and salt. Beat or whisk until blended, but not bubbily. Pour
mixture over bread slices, making sure to cover all slices evenly. Spoon
some mixture in between slices. Cover with foil and refrigerate
overnight.

The next morning, preheat oven to 350°. Spread Praline Topping over
French toast. Bake until golden brown, about 45 minutes. Serve with hot
maple syrup. Makes 12.

*Praline Topping*:

2 sticks butter 1 cup packed light brown sugar

1 cup chopped pecans 2 tablespoons light corn syrup

½ teaspoon cinnamon ½ teaspoon nutmeg

Combine all ingredients in medium bowl. Blend well.

Michael's Oven Baked French Toast

1 large loaf French bread ½ stick & 2 tablespoons butter

1 cup orange juice 8 eggs, beaten

½ teaspoon almond flavoring 2 cups milk

4 tablespoons brown sugar 2 teaspoons vanilla

1 ½ teaspoons cinnamon

Prepare large baking dish with baking spray. Cut bread into 1 ¼ inch
slices.. Arrange bread slices tightly into dish in one layer. Blend
eggs, milk, orange juice, spices and vanilla. Mix with beaten eggs.
Whisk until spices seem to be dissolved. Pour over bread slices and
cover tightly. Place in the refrigerator overnight. Remove the next
morning and pour melted ½ stick of butter over the bread (I use a pastry
brush). Place in cold oven, turn oven to 350° and bake for 60-65 minutes
or until golden brown. Serve with syrup.
