# Cornbread

Community Cornbread

(I found this recipe in *Lake* Magazine)

1-1/2 cups cornmeal 1 heaping tablespoon flour

3 teaspoons salt 1/2 teaspoon salt

1/2 teaspoon baking soda 1 cup buttermilk

2/3 cup vegetable oil 2eggs, beaten

1 small can cream-style corn 1/2 cup sour cream

3-4 jalapenos, chopped 1/2 green pepper, chopped

4-5 green onions, chopped 1 tablespoon butter

1-1/2 cups grated cheddar cheese

Preheat oven to 375º. Mix corn meal, flour, salt and baking soda; add
buttermilk, oil, eggs and corn. Beat and mix well. Stir in jalapenos,
green pepper and onions. Grease 9x14\" baking dish or cast iron skillet
with butter and heat well in preheated oven. Remove baking dish from
oven and pour in half of batter; sprinkle with half of cheese; and
repeat. Bake for 35 minutes. 8 servings.

Cornbread Dressing

Betty Jo Greer

Make Cornbread:

1-1/2 cup meal 4 teaspoons baking power

3 tablespoons flour 1 teaspoon salt

2 eggs, beaten 1-2/3 cups buttermilk

Mix dry ingredients; add wet ingredients; mix well. Grease baking dish
or cast iron skillet with butter and heat well in preheated oven. Remove
baking dish from oven and pour in half of batter Bake in preheated oven
at 350º for 45 minutes.

Dressing:

Cornbread (above), cooled 15 slices white bread (few days old)

Chicken broth 3 cups celery, chopped

2 cups onions, chopped 1 stick butter

3 eggs Black pepper

Saute onions and celery in melted butter until they are soft; set aside.
Crumble cooled cornbread into fine crumbs; break white bread int small
bits and add to cornbread. Add sauted onions and celery. Heat chicken
broth (warm broth helps to blend all ingredients better than room
temperature broth. Continue adding broth until dressing is right
consistency. (Do not let it be too thick.) If you are making this ahead
of time; put in sealable container and refrigerate. When read to bake,
add 3 well-beaten eggs; mix well. Bake in 350º oven for 45 minutes to 1
hour (until top is lightly browned and consistency you want.)

This is the recipe I follow when making dressing with these exceptions:

I use the recipe for my cornbread on Martha White Self-rising Cornmeal
Mix.

I add 2 cans cream of chicken soup.

Crock Pot Cornbread Dressing

Ida Clark

6 cups cornbread (previously made) 8 slices day old bread

4 eggs 1 medium onion, chopped

1/2 cup celery, chopped 1-1/2 tablespoons sage or

1/2 teaspoon black pepper 1-1/2 tablespoons poultry seasoning

2 (10-1/2-oz.) cans cream of chicken soup 2 (10-1/2-oz.) cans chicken
broth

1/4 cup butter salat

Lay your bread out on the counter the night before you prepare the
dressing so that it will dry. Crumble the breads. Add all other
ingredients except butter. Salt to taste. Pour into a sprayed crock pot.
Dot with butter. Cover and cook on high for 2 hours and on low for 4
hours.

Golden Corn Bread

2 eggs, lightly beaten 1 cup milk

1/4 cup oil 2-1/2 cups yellow self-rising cornmeal

1 cup all-purpose flour 1/2 can (15-oz.) cream-stylecorn

1/4 cup sugar, optional\*

Preheat oven to 450º. Grease a skillet or 9\" square baking pan (you can
also use corn stick pans.) Combine the wet ingredients; add remaining
ingredients. Stir until smooth. Pour batter into the pan. Bake 20-25
minutes.

Variations: Add 1/4 cup crumbled bacon, 1/4 cup chopped onion, 1/4 cup
chopped jalapeno peppers or 1/4 cup grated cheese.

\*This is Lou: I don\'t care for sweet bread so I don\'t add sugar, but
this is optional.

Mexican Cornbread #1

1-1/2 cups meal (yellow-plain) 3 teaspoons baking powder

2 teaspoons sugar 1 teaspoon salt

3 eggs,slightly beaten 2/3 cup crisco oil (canola)

3 pimentoes (or small jar, drained) 1 cup sour cream

3 j\'alapeno peppers (or bell pepper with 3 onions, chopped

dash of tabasco sauce) 1 can cream-style corn

1 can whole kernel corn, drained 1 cup sharp cheddar cheese, grated

Mix all dry ingredients together; add all remaining ingredients
**except** cheese. Pour 1/2 mixure into baking dish; spread 1/2 cheese
on top; pour remaining 1/2 mixture and top with remaining cheese. Bake 1
hour at 350º. 6-8 servings.

Mexican Cornbread #2

1-1/2 cups self-rising meal 1/2 cup self-rising flour

1 small can cream-style corn 3 pods j\'alapeno (pickled) peppers,
chopped fine

2 oz. American cheese, grated 1 small onion, chopped fine

2 eggs 1 cup buttermilk

1/4 cup mayonnaise

Mix meal and flour; add corn, peppers, cheese, onions, eggs, mayonnaise
and buttermilk. Mix well; pour into greased iron skillet. Bake at 450º
for 35-40 minutes.

Hush Puppies

> Becky Wright

1-1/2cups cornmeal 3/4 cup flour

2 tablespoons sugar 1 onion, chopped fine

1/2 cup buttermilk 1 large egg

1 small can cream-style corn Canola Oil

Add all ingredients except buttermilk. Add buttermilk slowly. (You might
not need 1/2). Mix well. Put oil to a depth of 3\"; heat to 375º. Drop
by rounded teaspoons into hot oil. Fry several minutes on each side
until golden brown. Drain on paper.

Mississippi Hush Puppies

1 cup self-rising cornmeal mix 1/2 cup self-rising flour

1 tablespoon sugar 1 large egg

1/2 cup milk or beer\* 1/2 cup diced onion

1/2 cup chopped green bell pepper 1 j\'alapeno pepper, chopped fine

Vegetable Oil (Canola)

Combine cornmeal, flour and sugar in a large bowl; make a wel in center
of mixture. Combine egg with remaining ingredients except vegetable oil;
stirring well; add to dry ingredients, stirring just until moistened.
Pour oil to a depth of 3\" into a dutch over or large saucepan; heat to
375º. Drop batter by rounded tablespoons into hot oil, and fry in
batches 2 minutes on each side or until golden brown. Drain on paper
towels; serve immediately. Yields: 1-1/2 dozen.

\*Substituting beer for milk makes these puppies lighter and tangier.

Catfish House Hushpuppies

2 cups self-rising cornmeal 1 cup flour

1 cup onion, chopped finely 1 cup corn relish (corn and pimento --

2 tablespoons sugar (10 parts corn to 1 part pimento)

1 egg Milk (2% or skim)

Add dry ingredients; add remainder adding milk last. Add milk to get
desired consistency. (Use scoop to drop hushpuppies into hot oil - 375°.

Sour Cream Corn Muffins

1 (8-oz.) sour cream 1 cup self-rising cornmeal

1 small can cream-style corn 1/2 cup vegetable oil

3 eggs, beaten dash saltl

Mix all ingredients and bake in muffin tins lined with paper cups. Bake
for 20 minutes at 350º

Mexican Corn Bread

Recipe from Favorite Recipes of Home Economics Teachers

Ths is my favorite cornbread.

3 cups self-risng meal 3 tablespooons sugar

1 teaspoon salt 1 large onion,chopped fine

1 can cream corn 1-1/2 cups grated Cheddar cheese

1 cup vegetable oil, slightly less 1-1/2 milk

3 eggs

Preheat oven to 400º. Spray muffin tins with spray. Mix all above
ingredients; put in muffin tins or two skillets. Bake for 45 minutes.
May be frozen.

Cornbread Sticks

> Blue Moon Inn Recipe

1 ½ cups plus 1 tablespoon yellow cornmeal 1 ½ cups flour

½ teaspoon baking powder 1 teaspoon baking soda

1 teaspoon salt ½ cup sugar, optional

2 eggs, well beaten ¼ cup melted butter

2 cups buttermilk

Oil heavy iron muffin stick pans with oil and heat until sizzling in
400° oven. Mix and sift dry ingredients together; add to cornmeal. Add
beaten eggs to buttermilk and butter. Pour into dry ingredients and
combine with few rapid strokes. Pour into sizzling irons and bake at
400° for 20-25 minutes.

Lake Martin Cornbread

Recipe Adapted from Husk Restaurant in Charleston, SC

2 cups coarse yellow cornmeal 5 tablespoons bacon drippings,

1 teaspoon salt melted but not hot

½ teaspoon baking soda 1 large egg, lightly beaten

½ teaspoon baking powder 1 ½ cups buttermilk (see note)

Large pinch of salt

Heat oven to 450°. Pre-heat a 10" cast-iron skillet inside the oven.
Combine cornmeal, salt, baking soda and baking powder. In another bowl,
combine 4 tablespoons of bacon drippings, egg and buttermilk. Combine
wet and dry ingredients until smooth batter comes together. Carefully
move hot skillet from oven to a burner over high heat. Add remaining
tablespoon of bacon drippings to the pan. Swirl the batter around the
hot skillet to make sure it is evenly distributed.

Return to oven for about 15 minutes, or until a toothpick inserted into
the cornbread comes out dry.

Note: The type and freshness of the cornmeal will affect the final
product. If you are using cornmeeal from Anson Mills or some other high
quality cornmeal, follow the recipe**. If you are using a store brand
cornmeal, cut cornmeal to 1 ½ cups and add ½ cup all-purpose flour.**

Buttermilk was the liquid left after butter was churned. But like so
much of our food, commercialization has turned into bacteria added
low-fat milk that is thickened and has a tangy flaor. Some producers
even add flects of butter to give it real look of buttermilk.
