---
layout: recipe
title: "misc breads"
category: "Breads"
---

# Misc Breads

Broccoli Bread

Betty Speed

1 package chopped frozen broccoli (box) 1 large onion, chopped

6 ounces cottage cheese 1 stick butter, melted

4 eggs, beaten ¾ teaspoon salt

1 can Mexican corn 1 box Jiffy cornmeal mix

Mix all above ingredients except cornmeal. After thoroughly mixed, add
cornmeal last. Put in greased (or sprayed) pan and bake at 450º for 25
minutes.

Caramel-Nut Pull-Apart Bread

1 cup plus 2 tablespoons firmly packed 1 cup chopped pecans (or walnuts)

brownsugar ¾ cup butter, melted

3 (10-oz.) cans refrigerated cinnamon-sugar

biscuits

Combine brown sugar and nuts in small bowl. Stir in butter. Spoon half
of sugar mixture in bottom of bundt pan. Cut each biscuit in half (using
kitchen scissors for quick cutting.) Place half of biscuit halves
alternately over sugar mixture. Spoon remaining sugar mixture over
biscuits n pan; top with remaining biscuits. Bake at 350º for 30-35
minutes or until browned. Turn onto a serving platter immediately,
spooning on sauce left in pan. 12 servings.

Cheddar Apple Bread

2 ½ cups flour ¾ cup sugar

2 teaspoons baking powder ½ teaspoon salt

½ teaspoon cinnamon 2 eggs, beaten

¾ cup milk 1/3 cup butter, melted

2 cups (8-oz.) Sharp Cheddar cheese 1 ½ cups chopped peeled apples

¾ cup nuts, chopped

Combine dry ingredients. Combine eggs, milk and butter. Add wet
ingredients to dry ingredients; mix well. Stir in remaining ingredients.
Spoon into well-greased and floured 9x5\" loaf pan. Bake at 350º for
65-70 minutes or until wooden stick inserted in center comes out clean.
Let stand 5 minutes; remove from pan. Makes 1 loaf.

Martha White\'s Quick Cheese Bread

2 eggs ¾ cup water

2 (5 ½ -oz.) packages BixMix 2 teaspoons dry mustard

1 ½ cups sharp cheddar cheese, grated 2 tablespoons butter

Heat oven to 350º. Grease an 8 1/2\" x 4 1/2\" x 2 1/2 \" loaf pan. Beat
eggs in a large bowl. Stir in water. Add BixMix and beat. Add mustard
and 1 cup cheese. Mix thoroughly. Turn batter into pan. Sprinkle with
remaining cheese and dot with butter. Bake for 45 minutes. Remove and
cool on rack before slicing.

Serving Suggestion: Serve sliced, buttered and toasted with a green
salad, soup or chili. Also makes delicious croutons.

Lemon Bread

1 ½ cups sifted flour 1 teaspoon bakings soda

1 teaspoon salt 1/3 cup butter, melted

1 cup sugar 2 eggs, beaten

¼ teaspoon almond extract ¼ cup milk

1 teaspoon grated lemon rind ½ cup chopped walnuts (or pecans)

Stir together flour, soda and salt; set aside. Combine in a mixing bowl
butter and sugar; beat well. Add eggs and almond extract; beat until
light and fluffy. Add dry ingredients, alternating with milk. Fold in
lemon rind and nuts. Pour into a greased 9x5x3\" loaf pan. Bake at 325º
about 1 hour or until done. (Test: wooden stick or toothpick in center
of loaf.)

Pumpkin Bread

Pat Cliggett

4 eggs 3 cups sugar

1 cup salad oil (canola) 1 teaspoon cinnamon

1 ½ teaspoons nutmeg 1 ½ teaspoons salt

2/3 cup water 1 ½ teaspoons bakng soda

1 cup canned pumpkin 1 teaspoon vanilla

3 cups flour 2/3 cups nuts, pecans or walnuts (optional)

Mix well eggs, sugar, oil, nutmeg, cinnamon and salt. Add water,
pumpkin, baking soda, vanilla, flour and nuts. Beat thoroughly with
mixer. Pour into 3 greased and floured loaf pans or 3 tall, tin coffee
cans. Bake 1 hour at 350º. Let cool few minutes and then turn out of
pans. This freezes well.

Cream Puffs

> Jean Hill

¾ cup water ¼ cup butter

1 cup Bisquick 4 eggs

Heat oven to 400°. Heat water and butter to rolling boil in 3 quart
saucepan. Add baking mix all at once. Stir vigorously over low heat
until mixture forms a ball, about 1 ½ minutes. Remove from heat. Beat in
eggs, one at a time; continue beating until smooth. Drop dough by 12
rounded tablespoonsfuls 2 inches apart onto ungreased cookie sheet. Bake
until light brown, 25-30 minutes. Cool away from draft. Cut off tops and
put out any filaments of soft dough. Fill with Peachy Cream Filling;
replace tops. Brush with peach preserves; sprinklw with sliced toasted
almonds\*. Refrigerate.

*Peachy Cream Filling*:

2 cups dairy sour cream 2 cups milk

2 packages (3 ½-oz. Each) vanilla instant pudding 1 teaspoon almond
flavoring (scant)

1 can (16-oz.) sliced peaches, drained and chopped

Beat sour cream and milk with hand beater until smooth. Beat in pudding
(dry) and almond flavoring until slightly thick, about 2 minutes. Stir
in peaches.

\*To toast almonds, heat oven to 350°. Bake on ungreased cookie sheet,
sitrring occasionally, until golden brown, about 8-10 minutes. Don't let
get too brown; they will burn easily.

Zucchini Bread #1

2 cups sugar 1 cup vegetable oil

3 eggs 3 cups shredded fresh zucchini (2-3 zucchinis)

1 teaspoon vanilla flavoring 3 cups plain flour

¼ teaspoon baking powder 1 teaspoon baking soda

½ teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon cinnamon

1 teaspoon ginger 1 teaspoon cloves

1 cup chopped pecans

Mix sugar, oil, eggs, zucchini and vanilla. Mix all other ingredients,
except nuts, together and add gradually to zucchini mixture. Add nuts.
Bake in 1 Bundt pan or 2 loaf pans at 325°. Loaf pans could be done in
50 minutes (this depends on your oven). Bread is better the day after
baking or it can be frozen and eaten later.

Zucchini Nut Bread #2

3 eggs 1 cup oil

2 ½ cups sugar 2 cups zucchini, peeled and grated

3 teaspooons vanilla 3 cups flour

1 teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon soda

1 teaspoon baking powder 3 teaspoons cinnamon

½ cup chopped nuts

Beat eggs; add oil, sugar, zucchini and vanilla. Mix lightly, but well.
Add other ingredients. Beat well. Bake in greased and floured loaf pans
at 325° for 1 hours. Yields 2 loaves. Freezes nicely.

Beatitudes for Children

Blessed is the child who has someone who believes in him, to whom he can
carry his problems unafraid.

Blessed is the child who is allowed to pursue his curiosit into every
worthwhile field of information.

Blessed is the child who has someone who understands that childhood
griefs are real and call for understanding and sympathy.

Blessed is the child who has about him those who believe in his divinity
and not his depravity.

Blessed is the child whose love of the true, the beautiful and the good
has been nourished through the years.

Blessed is the child whose innate imagination has been turned into
channels of creative effort.

Blessed is the child whose efforts to achieve have been found
encouragement and commendation.

***Blesse****d is the child who has learned freedom from selfishness
through responsibility with others.***
