---
layout: recipe
title: "Muffins"
category: "Breads"
---

# Muffins

Blueberry Coffeecake

Note: Make Topping first since it must be refrigerated for 30 minutes
before adding to cake.

2 cups all-purpose flour 1 teaspoon baking powder

1 teaspoon baking soda Dash salt

1 cup sugar ½ cup butter, softened

2 eggs 1 cup sour cream

1 teaspoon vanilla 2 cups blueberries

Topping

Grease a 9x13\" pan. Sift flour, baking powder, baking soda and salt.
Set aside. Beat together butter and sugar; add eggs, sour cream and
vanilla; mixx well. Add dry ingredients; mix well. Fold in blueberries;
pour in pan. Sprinkle *Topping* (below) over batter. Bake 350º for 40-45
minutes.

*Topping:* Mix ½ cup sugar and 1 teaspoon cinnamon; cut in 4 tablespoons
butter until crumbly. Add ¼ cup chopped pecans. Refrigerate 30 minutes
before adding to cake.

Low-Fat Apple Cinnamon Muffins

No-stick cooking spray ¾ cup skim milk

1/3 cup non-fat plain yogurt 2 egg whites

1 whole egg 2 teaspoons vanilla

Zest of one lemon 1/3 cup dark brown sugar, firmly packed

1 ½ teaspoons cinnamon 1 ½ teaspoons baking soda

¾ teaspoon baking powder 1 medium apple, peeled,cored & chopped

Heat oven to 375º. Spray with no-stick cooking spray only the bottoms of
12 medium muffin cups. In a large bowl beat milk, yogurt, egg whites,
egg, vanilla and lemon zest. In a separate bowl combine flour, sugar,
cinnamon, baking soda and baking powder. Fold dry ingredients into wet
until just moist. Stir in apple. Divide batter among muffin cups. Bake
18 to 20 minutes or until toothpick inserted into center comes our
clean. Immediately remove from pan and cool on wire rack. Makes 1 dozen.
(102 calories and 1gram fat per muffin.)

Applesauce Bran Muffins

1 ½ cups Nabisco 100% Bran 1 ½ cups applesauce

1 egg ¼ cup butter, melted

½ cup firmly packed light brown sugar 1 ½ cups all-purpose flour

1 tablespoon baking powder 1 teaspoon cinnamon

½ cup seedless raisins, optional Apple Sauce Glaze, recipe follows

Mix bran, applesauce, egg, butter and brown sugar; let stand 5 minutes.
In large bowl, blend flour, baking powder and cinnamon; stir in bran
mixture just until blended (batter will be lumpy). Stir in raisins, if
desired. Spoon batter into 12 greased 2 ½ \" muffin-pan cups. Bake at
400º for 15 to 18 minutes or until done. Cool slightly. Drizzlew with
*Apple-Sauce Glaze*; serve warm. Makes 1 dozen.

*Apple-Sauce Glaze:* Blend ½ cup confectioner\'s sugar into 1 tablespoon
applesauce until smooth.

Apple Raisin Bran Muffins

1 ½ cups shreds of wheat bran cereal 1 cup skim milk

¼ cup butter, melted ½ honey

1 large cooking apple, peeled, cored and ¾ cup raisins

grated (1 ½ cups) 1 large egg, well beaten

1 teaspoon cinnamon 1 ¼ cups all-purpose flour

2 teaspoons baking powder ½ teaspoon baking soda

Heat oven to 400º. Lightly grease 12 muffin cups. In a large bowl, soak
cereal in milk for 5 minutes. Stir in butter, honey, apple, raisins, egg
and cinnamon. In another bowl, combine remaining ingredients. With a
rubber spatula, fold flour into apple bran mixture just enough to
moisten. Do not over mix. Evenly distribute among 12 muffin cups. Bake
20 minutes or until done.

Each muff contains about 169 calories, 4.3 grams fat and 23 milligrams
cholesterol.

Blueberry Tea Muffins

2 eggs, separated ½ cup skim milk

2 tablespoons sugar (or sugar substitute) ¾ cup flour

1 teaspoon baking powder ½ teaspoon salt

1 cup blueberries

Beat egg yolks, milk, sugar or substitute, flour and baking powder
together until smooth Combine salt and eggwhites. Whip until stiff. Fold
in batter carefully. Add blueberries last, stirring in gently. Spoon
into a nonstick 12-cup muffin pan. Bake in a preheated 372º oven for 15
to 20 minutes, until lightly browned.

54 calories each without sugar; 62 calories with sugar.

Refrigerator Bran Muffins

Cypress Inn Recipe

1 (15-oz.) box Bran cereal 3 cups sugar

5 cups all-purpose flour 5 teaspoons baking soda

2 teaspoons salt 2 teaspoons cinnamon

2 teaspoons cloves 2 teaspoons nutmeg

4 eggs 1 cup vegetable oil

1 quart buttermilk 2 teaspoons vanilla

Preheat oven to 400º. Mix dry ingredients togther in large bowl. Stir in
remaining ingredients and mix well. Fill muffin tins 2/3 full. Bake for
15 minutes.

Batter will last up to 4 weeks in refrigerator (sealed tightly). Works
great for regular size or small muffins.

Bran Muffins

1 cup sifted flour ½ teaspoon salt

3 teaspoons baking powder 1 cup Nabisco100% Bran

1 cup milk 3 tablespoons butter, softened

¼ cup sugar 1 egg, lightly beaten

Sift flour, salt and baking powder. Add Bran to milk; let stand 5
minutes. Beat butter with sugar until light. Add egg and beat until
smooth Stir in bran. Add flour mixture and stir just until mixed. Fill
greased muffin pans 2/3 full. Bake in hot oven (400º) for 25-30 minutes.
Makes 10-12 muffins.

Six-Week Bran Muffin Mix

Ruth Stinson

1 box (15-oz.) Kelloggs Raisin Bran or 1 cup vegetable oil

samesize Bran Flakes 3 cups sugar

5 cups all-purpose flour 5 teaspoons baking soda

4 eggs, beaten 1 teaspoon salt

1 quart buttermilk 2 to 2 ½ cups raisins (more if Bran Flakes

5 cups walnuts (or pecans), chopped are used

3 cans (20-oz. each) crushed pineapple (well-drained)

Mix dry ingredients, add raisins and nuts; add eggs, oil, buttermilk and
pineapple. Bae at 300º for 30 minutes or until done. Store in
refrigerator in tightly covered bowl up to 6 weeks. These freeze well
after baking.

Breakfast Casserole Muffins

1 lb sausage, browned and drained 6 eggs, beaten

2 cups milk 1 cup Bisquick Mix

½ teaspoon salt ¼ teaspoon pepper

2 cups grated cheese

Spray muffin tins with cooking spray. Place cooked sausage in muffin
tins. Mix eggs, milk, Bisquick Mix, salt and pepper. Pour over sausage.
Top with grated cheese. Bake at 350º for 20-25 minutes. Freezes great.
Can thaw in microwave in 30 seconds.

Cranberry Pecan Muffins

1 ½ cups chopped cranberries ¼ cup sugar

3 cups sifted all-purpose flour 4 ½ teaspoons baking powder

½ teaspoon salt 1 cup sugar

½ cup butter 2 teaspoons grated lemon rind

2 eggs 1 cup milk

1 cup pecans, chopped 2 teaspoons grated lemon rind

Combine coarsely chopped cranberries and ¼ cup sugar in small bowl; let
stand while preparing batter. Sift flour, baking powder, salt and 1cup
sugar in a large bowl. Cut in butter with a pastry blender until mixture
is crumbly. Stir in pecans and lemon rind. Beat eggs in small bowl until
light; stir in milk. Add liquid all at once to flour mixture, stirring
just until moist. Fold in cranberry mixture. Spoon batter into greased
medium-size muffin pan cups, filling each 2/3 full. Bake in hot oven
(400º) for 20 minutes, or until golden brown. Remove from pans to wire
racks. Serve warm.

Popovers

2 eggs 1 cup milk

1 tablespoon butter, melted 1 cup sifted all-purpose flour

½ teaspoon salt

Generously butter eight 5-ounce custard cups; place on a jelly-roll pan.
Beat eggs in a medium-size glass bowl until frothy. Stir in milk and
butter; beat until blended. Beat in flour and salt untilbatter is
smooth. Ladle into prepared cups, filling each about half full. Bake in
a hot over (425º) for 35 minutes. Cut slit in side of each popover to
allow steam to escape. Retun to oven and bake 5 minutes longer, or until
popovers are deep brown and very crisp. Serve with butter and jelly.

Savory Cheddar Muffins

2 cups all-purpose flour 3 ½ teaspoons baking powder

1 teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon paprika

¼ cup butter 1 egg

1 cup milk 1 cup Cheddar cheese, grated

2/3 cups raisins

Sift flour with baking powder, salt and paprika. Cut in butter until
mixture resembles fine crumbs. Stir in remaining ingredients just until
moistened. Spoon into well-greased muffin pans. Bake at 425º for 25
minutes. Serves 12.

Golden Oatmeal Muffins

1 cup sifted all-purpose flour 1 tablespoon baking powder

½ teaspoon salt ¼ cup sugar

1 cup oats, uncooked 3 tablespoons vegetable oil

1 egg, beaten 1 cup milk

Sift together flour, baking powder, salt and sugar into bowl. Stir in
oats. Add remaining ingredients; stir only until dry ingredients are
moistened. Fill greased medium-sized muffin cups 2/3 full. Bake in
preheated oven(425º) about15 minutes. Serve piping hot. Makes 1 dozen.

Pumpkin-Carrot Spice Muffins

Karen Weinrib, Homewood, Alabama

1 box carrot or spice cake mix 6 tablespoons egg substitute (or 3 egg
whites)

1can pumpkin (15-oz.) 1/3 cup water

2/3 cup golden raisins

Preheat over to 350º. Spray 20 muffin tins with non-stick cooking spray.
Combine cake mix, pumpkin, egg substitute and water. Beat with mixer on
low for 30 seconds. Scrape bowl; thenbeat on medium for two minutes.
Stir in golden raisins. Spoon into muffin tin. Bake for 18-20 minutes.
Remove from pan and cool on wire racks.
