Lace Oatmeal Cookies

> Florence Wilson

1 ½ cups Old Fashioned Oatmeal (not quick) 1 stick salted butter
(melted)

¾ cup sugar 1 tablespoon flour

1 teaspoon baking powder 1 egg

1 teaspooon vanilla ½ cup chopped pecans

Melt butter in microwave bowl; add oats and stir. Add sugar, flour and
baking powder and stir. Add egg and vanilla and stir. Add pecans and
stir.

Line cookie sheet with foil -- shiny side up. Spray with Pam. (This is
very important to keep the cookies from sticking to foil.) Drop 1
teaspoon dough on foil; do not crowd; cookies will spread. (I only put
about 8 -- 10 cookies on my large cookie sheet.) Bake in 325° pre-heated
oven for 13 minutes (or until cookies look set and tan.) Lift foil
carefully off the pan and place on counter; let cool 13 minutes. Peel
the cookies off the foil.

Oat Bran Cookies

Jan Beale

1 ½ cup oat bran ¼ cup flour

1 teaspoon cinnamon ¼ teaspoon baking soda

½ teaspoon salt ¼ cup oil

¾ cup apple cider jelly or ¾ cup all fruit concentrate

½ cup browng sugar or honey may be added for extra sweetness

Mix all ingredients. Drop onto sprayed with Pam cookie sheet. Bake 10
minutes at 350º.

Spicy Oatmeal Raisin Cookies

1 package white cake mix 1 cup quick-cooking rolled oats

2 teaspoons ground cinnamon 1 teaspoon ground nutmeg

2 eggs ½ cup vegetable oil

1 cup raisins

Preheat oven to 375º. Spray baking sheets.

In a large mixer bowl, combine cake mix, oats, cinnamon, nutmeg, eggs
and oil. Beat on low speed for 1 minute or just until blended. Stir in
raisins. Mix well. Drop dough by rounded tablespoons onto prepared
baking sheets, 2 inches apart. Flatten slightly with fingers Bake 1sheet
at a time, for 8 to 12 minutes or until lightly browned.\* Cool on
baking sheets for 1 minute or until firm, then remove to wire racks to
cool completely.

\*Cook less time if you prefer chewy cookies instead of crispy ones.

Variation: Replace raisins with dried cranberries or a mixture of other
dried fruits. Adjust spice to suit your own tastes.

Vanishing Oatmeal Raisin Cookies

1 cup butter, softened 1 teaspoon baking soda

1 cup firmly packed brown sugar 1 teaspoon ground cinnamon

½ cup granulated sugar ½ teaspoon salt (optional)

2 eggs 3 cups regular or quick oats, uncooked

1 teaspoon vanilla 1 cup raisins

1 ½ cups all-purpose flour

Heat oven to 350º. Beat butter and sugars until creamy. Add eggs and
vanilla; beat well. Combine flour, baking soda, cinnamon and salt; add
to butter mixture; mixing well. Stir in oats and raisins; mix well. Drop
by rounded tablespoonfuls onto ungreased cookie sheet. Bake for 10 to 12
minutes or until light golden brown. Cool 1 minute on cookie sheet;
remove to wire rack. Cool completely Store in airtight container. Makes
about 4 dozen 2 & 1/2\" cookies.

Oatmeal Cookies

Linda Owens

2 sticks butter, softened 3 cups oatmeal

1 cup brown sugar 1 cup chopped pecans

1 cup white sugar 1 ½ cups plain flour

2 eggs 1 teaspoon salt

1 teaspoon soda 1 teaspoon vanilla

Combine butter and sugars until creamy; add eggs and beat well. Add
flour, salt and soda. Combine well. Add oatmeal, pecans and vanilla. Mix
well. Drop by rounded teaspoons onto cookie sheets sprayed with Pam.
Bake one baking sheet at a time in preheated oven at 350º for 10 to 15
minutes. Don\'t overcook.

Chewy Oatmeal Cookies

> Carol Spinks

1 cup flour ¾ teaspoon soda

½ teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon cinnamon

¼ teaspoon nutmeg ¾ cup shortening\*, soft

1 1/3 cups brown sugar 2 eggs

1 teaspoon vanilla 2 cups Quaker oats

1 cup raisins 1 cup pecans, chopped

Sift together flour, soda, salt, cinnamon and nutmeg into a bowl. Add
shortening, sugar, eggs and vanilla; beat until smooth -- about 2
minutes. Stir in oats, raisins and pecans. Chill dough slightly. Drop by
heaping teaspoonfuls ont greased cookie sheets. Bake at 350° for 11-15
minutes. Makes 3 ½ dozen crisp cookies. To soften cookies, store in an
airtight container with a slice of apple (on plastic or waxed paper).

\*Note: I use ½ cup shortening and ¼ cup butter.

Oatmeal Lace Cookies

½ cup butter ¾ cups quick oats

½ cup light brown sugar 2 tablespoons heavy cream

1 tablespoon light corn syrup ¼ teaspoon salt

¼ cup all-purpose flour ½ teaspoon vanilla

In heavy saucepan heat butter; stir in rest of ingredients and bring to
simmer; stir and remove from heat. Cool 5 minutes. Arrange level
teaspoon full 3\" apart on greased baking sheets. Bake at 350º for 7 to
9 minutes. Let cool 1 minute. Wrap around rolling pin if desired.

Oatmeal Cookie Sandwiches with Dried Cranberries,

White Chocolate Chips and White Frosting

Recipe from "Magnolia: Recipes from the World-Famous Bakery

and Magnolia's Home Kitchen"

*Cookies:*

1 stick plus 6 tablespoons butter, softened ¾ cup firmly packed brown
sugar

½ cup granulated sugar 2 eggs

1 teaspoon vanilla 1 ½ cups all-purpose flour

1 teaspoon baking soda 1 taspoon cinnamon

½ teaspoon salt 3 cujps Quaker Oats, uncooked

½ cup dried cranberries ½ cup white chocolate chips

Heat oven to 350°. In a large bowl, beat butter and sugars. Add eggs and
vanilla; beat well. Add combined flour, baking soda, cinnamon and salt;
mix well. Add oats, cranberries and white chocolate chips; mix well.
Drop dough by rounded tablespoons onto ungreased cookie sheets. Bake
8-10 minutes or until light golden brown. Cool 1 minutes on cookie
sheets; remove to wire rack. Cool completely.

- Recipe adapted from Quaker Oats' "Vanishing Oatmeal Raisin Cookies"

*Creamy Vanilla Frosting*:

6 tablespoons all-purpose flour 2 cups milk

2 cps (4 sticks) butter, softened 2 cups sugar

2 teaspoons vanilla

IN a medium-size saucepan, whisk the flour into the milk until smooth.
Place over medium heat and, stirring constantly, cook until the mixture
becomves very thick and begins to bubble, 10-15 minutes. Cover with
waxed paper directly on the surface and cool to room temperature, about
30 minutes. In a large bowl, on the medium-high speed of an electric
mixer, beat the butter for 3 minutes, until smooth and creamy. Gradually
add the sugar, beating continuously for 3 minutes until fluffy. Add the
vanilla and beat well.

Add the cooled milk mixture, and continue to beat on the medium-high
speed for 5 minutes, until very smooth and noticeably whiter in color.
Cover and refrigerate for 15 minutes -- no less and no more -- set a
timer. Use immediately.

*To make sandwiches*:

After the cookies are completely cooled, grab two of them and with a
large spoon, apply a generous amount of frosting to one, then top with
the other. Continue until you are out of cookiers. To store: it is best
to store the cookies in layers, separated by sheets of waxed paper.

Raisin Bran Cookies

Mildred Cook

2 cups Raisin Bran crushed to equal 1 ½ cups 1 cup whole wheat flour

1 cup all-purpose flour 1 teaspoon soda

1 ½ sticks butter, softened 2/3 cup granulated sugar

½ cup firmly-packed brown sugar 2 eggs

1 teaspoon vanilla flavoring Extra raisins may beadded if desired

Combine Raisin Bran, flours, soda. Beat butter, sugars until fluffy. Add
eggs and vanilla. Beat well. Stir in flour mixture. Mix well. Add extra
raisins if desired. Drop onto ungreased cookie sheet. Measure 2
tablespoons for each cookie. Bake at 325º about 12-15 minutes. Ovens
vary; do not overcook. (THIS IS LOU: I tend to cook cookies less than
time requires, because we like a softer, chewier cookie.)

Low-Fat Oatmeal Raisin Cookies

I found this recipe in Montgomery Advertiser

(This makes 42 (2\") cookies.

¼ cup canola oil 1 cup lightly packed brown sugar

½ cup granulated sugar ½ cup fat-free liquid egg substitutes

1 teaspoon vanilla flavoring 3 cups regular or quick oats

1 cup unbleached all-purpose flour 1 teaspoon salt

¼ teaspoon baking powder 1cup raisins

Combine oil and sugars in a mixer bowl. Beat on medium speed until the
sugars start to dissolve. Add the egg substitutes and vanilla and beat 1
to 2 minutes longer. Stir in oats, flour, salt and baking powder and and
mix to form a soft dough. Stir in raisins until evenly distributed

Heat oven to 350º. Dip your fingers or a tablespoon into water and drop
2\" balls of dough onto nonstick baking sheets. Space the cookies 1 1/2
\" apart. Bake 12 to 14 minutes, or until golden Remove from baking
sheets and cool on a wire rack. Store in airtight containers.

Nutritional information per cookie: Calories, 74; protein, 1.2 grams;
carbohohydrate, 14 grams; fat, 1.6 grams (19 percent of calories from
fat); cholesterol, 0 milligrams; sodium, 73 milligrams.

Oatmeal-Coconut Cookies

1 cup butter 1 cup granulated sugar

1 cup brown sugar 2 eggs

2 cups all-purpose flour 1 teaspoon baking soda

1 teaspoon baking powder 1 teaspoon salt

1 cup coconut 1 cup frosted flakes (curshed)

1 ½ cups regular oatmeal 1 teaspoon vanilla

Blend sugars and butter; add eggs. Add flour, baking powder and salt.
Stir in coconut. Stir in cereal, oatmeal and vanilla. Drop onto greased
cookie sheets and bake at 325º for 12-15 minutes or until lightly brown.
Makes 6-7 dozen cookiers.

Oatmeal Raisin Cookies #1

Recipe is from \"High-Flavor Low-Fat Vegetarian Cooking\" by Steve
Raichlen, published by Viking

(The Associated Press put this is paper.)

¾ cup applesauce 1 teaspoon cinnamon

1 ¼ cups light brown sugar ½ teaspoon cardamom

2 egg whites ¼ teaspoon nutmeg

1/3 cup skim milk 1/8 teaspoon ground cloves

1 ½ teaspoons vanilla 1 ½ teaspoons grated orange zest

½ cup all-purpose flour 3 cups quick oats

1 teaspoon baking soda 1 cup raisins

½ teaspoon salt (optional) Spray oil (optional)

Preheat the oven to 375º. Combine the applesauce, sugar, egg whites,
milk and vanilla in a mixing bowl; whisk until smooth. Add the flour,
baking soda, salt (if using), cinnamon, cardamom, nutmeg, cloves and
zest, and stir just to mix. Stir in the oats and raisins. Grease 3
cookie sheets with spray oil. (This is unnecessary with nonstick pans.)
Spoon the batter onto the cookie sheets, 2 heaping tablespoons at a
time, leaving 3\" between cookies. Gently flatten each cookie with a wet
spatula. Bake for 12 to 14 minutes, until firm and lightly browned on
the bottom. (Watch them closely; they burn faster than butter-based
cookies.) Let the cookies cool on the cookie sheet for 1 minute, then
transfer to a rack to cool. Store in an airtight container. Makes twenty
3\" cookies.

Raisin-Oatmeal Cookies #2

1 cup flour, sifted ½ teaspoon baking soda

¼ teaspooon cinnamon 1 ½ cups quick cooking oats

2 egg whites, slightly beaten 1 cup brown sugar

1/3 cup oil ½ cup skim milk

1 teaspoon vanilla 1 cup seedless raisins

Sift together flour, baking soda and cinnamon. Stir in oats. Combine egg
whites, brown sugar, oil, milk, vanilla and raisins and add to flour
mixture. Mix well Drop batter a teaspoon at a time onto an oiled cookie
sheet or cookie sheet lined in parchment paper. Bake at 375° for 12-15
minutes, depending on texture desired. Shorter baking time results in a
chewy soft cookie, the longer time in a crisp one. Makes 3 dozen
cookies.

Cranberry Walnut Oatmeal Cookies

¾ stick Crisco baking stick shortening or butter ¾ cup sugar

¾ cup firmly packed brown sugar 2 large eggs

2 teaspoons vanilla 1 cup all-purpose flour

1 teaspoon baking soda 1 teaspoon cinnamon

¼ teaspoon salt 1 ¾ cups rolled oats

1 cup dried cranberries 1 cup chopped nuts

Heat oven to 375º. Lightly coat baking sheets with no-stick cooking
spray (or use parchment paper). Beat shortening, sugar and brown sugar
in large bowl at medium speed of electric mixer until creaming. Beat in
eggs and vanilla. Combine flour, baking soda, cinnamon and salt in small
bowl. Beat into shortening mixture until blended. Stir in oats,
cranberries and nuts. Drop by rounded tablespoonfuls about 2\" apart on
prepared baking sheets. Bake 100-12 minutes or until light brown. Cool
on baking sheets 2 minutes. Place on cooling rack to cool completely.
Makes 3 dozen cookies.

K**id\'s Favorite Chewy Oatmeal Cookie**

¾ cups Butter Flavor Crisco, or butter 1 ¼ cups firmly packed light
brown sugar

1 egg 1/3 cup milk

1 ½ teaspoons vanilla 3 cups oats (quick or old-fashioned uncooked)

1 cup all-purpose flour ½ teaspoon baking soda

½ teaspoon salt ¼ teaspoon cinnamon

1 cup raisins 1 cup coarsely chopped walnuts

Heat oven to 375º. Grease baking sheet with crisco. (I prefer to use
parchment paper and omit the grease.) Combine either crisco or butter,
sugar, egg, milk and vanilla in large bowel. Beat at medium speed of
electric mixer until well-blended. Combine oats, flour, baking soda,
salt and cinnamon. Mix dry igredients into creamed mixture at low speed
just until blended. Stir in raisins and nuts. Drop rounded
tablespoonfuls of dough 2\" apart onto baking sheet. Bake at 375º for
10-12 minutes, or until lightly browned. Cool 2 minutes on baking sheet.
Remove to kitchen counter, covered in waxed or parchment paper.

***Oatmeal Cookie Variations***:

**Half-Dipped Cookies** -- Omit raisins and nuts. Bake and cool.
Microwave 1 cup Duncan Hines Dutch Fudge Frosting for 20-25 seconds, or
until smooth and thin. Dip top half of cooking in frosting. Lay on waxed
paper until set.

**Favorite Chip Cookies** -- Omit raisins and nuts. Add 1 cup baking
chips (such as chocolate, peanut butter, etc.) to batter. Bake and cool.

**Maple Walnut Cookies** -- Omit raisins. Add 1-1/2 teaspoons maple
flavoring to dough. Bake and cool. Frost top of cooled cookie with
mixture of 1 container Duncan Hines Vanilla Layer Cake Frosting and 1
teaspoon maple flavoring. Garnish wth walnut half.

Kid-Sized Cookies

¾ cup firmly packed brown sugar ½ cup shortening

½ cup butter, softened 2 teaspoons vanilla

1 egg 1 ¾ cups all-purpose flour

1 teaspoon baking soda ½ teaspoon salt

1 ½ cups candy-coated chocolate pieces

Heat oven to 350º. In large bowl, combine brown sugar, shortening,
butter, vanilla and egg; beat well. Stir in flour, baking soda and salt;
mix well. Stir in 1 cup of the candy-coated chocolate pieces. If
necessary, cover with plastic wrap; refrigerate 1 hour for easier
handling. Shape dough into 2\" balls. Place 4\" apart on ungreased
cookie sheets. Press remaining 1/2 cup of chocolate pieces into balls to
decorate tops of cookies. Bake at 350º for 15-20 minutes or until light
golden brown. Cool 2 minutes; remove from cookie sheegts. Makes 14 large
cookies.

Ginger Cookies

Brian Willett

1 cup sugar 1/2 teaspoon ground ginger

3/4 cup shortening 1/2 teaspoon ground cloves

1/4 cup molasses (dark) 1/2 teaspoon salt

1 egg 1 teaspoon cinnamon

2 teaspoon baking soda 2 cups flour

Cream shortening and sugar. Add other ingredients, spices, soda and
flour. Chill dough. Form balls (1\" diameter) and roll in granulated
sugar. Bake at 375º bor 8-10 minutes. DO NOT OVERBAKE! Remove from oven
when they seem set. Cool on sheet for 2 minutes and then on wire rack
until completely cool

Gingerbread Snowmen

1/2 cup butter, unsalted and softened 1/2 cup sugar

1 egg 3/4 cup light molasses

2-1/2 cups all-purpose flour 1 tablespoon cocoa powder

3/4 teaspoon bakine powder 1 tablespoon ground ginger

1/2 teaspoon cinnamon Royal Icing; mint chocolate chips; candy corn

Beat butter and sugar; add egg and molasses; beat until smooth. Combine
flour, cocoa, baking powder, ginger and cinnamon. Stir into butter
mixture. Divide in 1/2. Wrap in saran wrap and refrigerate 2 hours. On
floured board (or kitchen counter covered in wax paper) roll out dough
and cut with snowman cutters. Bake at 350º for 11 minutes. Cool
completely. Decorate witih royal icing; chocolate chips for eyes and
candy corn for nose. Also chips for buttons, etc.

Gingerbread Men Cookies #1

2 ½ cups all-purpose flour ½ cup sugar

¼ cup butter ½ cup molasses

1 egg 1 ½ teaspoon cinnamon

1 teaspoon ginger ¼ teaspoon cloves

Raisins

Mix all ingredients (except raisins) in a large bowl. Beat with mixer at
medium speed until well-mixed. Cover and chill 1 hour. On lightly
floured surface, roll dough to 1/8" thickness. Use gingerbread man
cutter to cut cookies out. Place ½ inch apart on cookie sheet. Decorate
with small raisins for eyes, nose, mouth, buttons, etc. Bake at 350° for
8 minutes until browned. When cool, cookies can be decorated with icing.
If icing is used, don't put raisins on cookies until iced.

Gingerbread Men Cookies #2

3 cups flour 1 teaspoon ground cinnamon

1 teaspoon baking soda 2 teaspoons ground ginger

¼ teaspon ground nutmeg ¼ teaspoon salt

1 ½ sticks butter ¾ cup firmly packed brown sugar

½ cup molasses 1 egg

1 teaspoon vanilla

Mix flour, cinnamon, baking soda, ginger, nutmeg and salt; set aside.
Beat butter and sugar in a large bowl with electric mixer on medium
speed intil light and fluffy. Add molasses, egg and vanilla; mix well.
Gradually beat in flour mixture on low speed until well mixed. Press
dough into a thick flat disk. Wrap in plastic wrap. Refrigerate 4 hours
or overnight.

Roll out dough to ¼ inch thickness on lightly floured work surface. Cut
into gingerbread men shapes with a 5" cookie cutter. Place 1" apart on
ungreased baking sheets.

Bake in preheated 350° oven 8-10 minutes or until edges of cookies just
begin to brown. Cool on baking sheets 2 minutes. Remove to wire rackss;
cool completely. Decorate cookies as desired. Store cookies in airtight
container up to 5 days.

Makes 2 dozen cookies.

Gingersnaps

¾ cup shortening 1 cup sugar

4 tablespoons molasses 1 egg

2 cups flour 2 teaspoons baking soda

1 teaspoon cinnamon 1 teaspoon ground cloves

1 teaspoon ginger Extra sugar for dipping

Preheat oven to 325°. Cream together shortening and sugar. Add molasses
and egg, beating well. By had, mix in dry ingredients, in order and stir
well after each addition. Stir together untl smooth. Spoon into small
balls, dip in sugar, then place on lightly greased cookie sheet. Bake
for 12-13 minutes. Leave cookies on sheet for a few minutes before
removing. Cookies are best when crispy.

Raisin Cookies

Mama Franklin

1 cup raisins 2 cups flour

½ cup water 1 teaspoon salt

½ cup butter, softened 1 teaspoon baking powder

1 cup sugar ½ teaspoon soda

2 eggs 1 teaspoon cinnamon

1 teaspoon vanilla 1/8 teaspoon nutmeg

½ cup chopped nuts (pecans) 1/8 teaspoon allspice

Add raisins to water and boil (or simmer) 5 minutes; let cool. Cream
butter and sugar; add eggs and vanilla. Add cooled raisins and nuts.
Sift dry ingredients together; add to raisin mixture and blend. Drop on
greased cookie sheets. Bake at 350º 12-15 minutes (less if you like
softer cookie.)

Oatmeal Pudding Cookies

General Foods Recipe

1 ¼ unsifted all-purpose flour 1 teaspoon baking soda

1 cup butter, softened ¼ cup granulated sugar

¾ cup firmly packed light brown sugar 1 package (3 oz) Jell-O Brand
Vanilla Flavor

2 eggs *Instant* Pudding and Pie Filling

3 ½ cups quick-cooking rolled oats 1 cup raisins (optional)

Mix flour with baking soda. Combine butter, sugars and pudding in large
mixer bowl; beat until smooth and creamy. Beat in eggs. Gradually add
flour mixture; then stir in oats and raisins. (Batter will be stiff.)
Drop by rounded teaspoonfuls onto greased baking sheets, about 2 inches
apart. Bake at 375º for 10-12 minutes Makes about 5 dozen.

Yankee Quakers

****(An oatmeal cookie)

2 cups dark brown sugar 1 cup crisco (or butter)

2 eggs 2 cups flour

1 cup quick oats ½ teaspoon soda

1 teaspoon salt 2 teaspoon flour

Cream shortening (butter or crisco) and sugar. Add eggs and vanilla.
Beat well. Stir in a mixture of flour with salt and soda. Add oatmeal.
Place cookies on greased cookie sheet. Bake at 350º 10-12 minutes.

World's Best Cookies

1 cup white sugar 1 cup brown sugar

2 sticks butter 1 egg

1 cup oil 1 cup quick-cooking oatmeal (dry)

1 cup crushed corn flakes 3 ½ cups all-purpose flour

1 teaspoon soda (sifted with flour) 1 teaspoon vanilla

½ cup chopped nuts

Mix sugars and butter; add egg and oil Add oats, nuts and corn flakes.
Keep stirring; add flour mixture and vanilla. Form small balls; flatten
and place on cookie sheet. Bake at 350° for 10-12 minutes.

Double Chocolate Chunk Mint Cookies

2 cups flour 2/3 cup cocoa powder

1 teaspoon baking soda 1/4 teaspoon salt

1 cup butter, softened 1 cup granulated sugar

2/3 cp firmly packed light brown sugar 2 eggs

1 teaspoon peppermint extract 6 oz. Semi-sweet baking chocolate,
coarsely

1 cup coarsely chopped walnuts chopped

Mix flour, cocoa powder, baking soda and salt in medium bowl. Set aside.
Beat butter and sugars in large bowl with electric mixwer on medium
speed until light and fluffy. Add eggs and extract; mix well. Gradually
sstir in flour mixtrue on low speed until well-mixed. Stir in chocolate
and walnuts. Drop dough by rounded tablespoonfuls about 2\" apart onto
baking sheets sprayer with no-stick cooking spray. Bake in poreheated
350º oven 8-10 minutes or just until cookies are set. Cool on baking
sheets 2 minutes. Remove to wire racks; cool completely. Store cookies
in airtight container up to 5 days. Makes 4 dozen cookies.

Peanut Butter Oatmeal Chocolate Chunk Cookies

1 cup flour 1 cup regular or quick oats

½ teaspoon baking soda ½ teaspoon baking powder

¼ teaspoon salt ½ cup (1 stick) butter, softened

½ cup granulated sugar ½ cup firmly packed brown sugar

½ cup peanut butter 1 egg

1 ½ teaspoons vanilla 6 squares Baker\'s semi-sweet baking chocolate,
coarselychopped

Preheat ovento 375º. Mix flour, oats, baking soda, baking powder and
salt; set aside. Beat butter and peanut butter in large bowl with
electic mixer on medium speed until light and fluffy. Add egg and
vanilla. Gradually add flour mixture, mixing until blended after each
addition. Stir in chocolate. Drop heaping tablespoons of dough, 1\"
apart, onto ungreased baking sheets. Bake 10 to 12 minutes until lightly
browned. Cool 1 minute; remove from baking sheets to wire racks.

Peanut Butter Quickies

2 cups graham cracker crumbs 1 cup sugar

¾ cup evaporated milk ¾ cup peanut butter

Mix ingredients well. Drop by teaspoonful onto greased cookie sheet or
sheet lined with parchment paper. Top each with pecan half. Bake at 350°
for 12-15 minutes. Remove and let cool on wire rack.

Holly Jolly Peanut Butter Cookies

1 cup all-purpose flour 1 cup firmly packed light brown sugar

2/3 cup old-fashioned rolled oats 1/3 cup granulated sugar

1 ½ teaspoon baking powder 1 egg

¼ teaspoon salt 1 ¼ teaspoons vanilla

1 cup creamy peanut butter 1 package (12.6 oz) M&M\'s Chocolate candies

1 stick butter, softened

Preheat oven t 350º. Combine flour, oats, baking powder and salt in
medium bowl; set aside. Cream peanut butter, butter and both sugars in
large bowl with electric mixer on medium-high speed until fluffy. Beat
in egg and vanilla. Turn mixer down to low speed and gradually add flour
mixture. Stir in M&M\'s with wooden spoon. Form mixture into 1\" balls.
Place 3\" apart on nonstick baking sheets and flatten with tines of fork
in criss-cross pattern. Bake 10 to 12 minutes or until edges are lightly
browned and centers are still soft. Cool 1 minute on baking sheet;
transfer to wire racks. Cool completely.

Choco Peanut Butter Cookies

1 ½ cups firmly packed brown sugar 1 cup creamy or chunky peanut butter

1 ½ sticks butter, softened 1/3 cup water

¼ cup egg substitute or 1 egg 1 teaspoon vanilla

3 cups quick or regular oats 1 ½ cups all-purpose flour

½ teaspoon baking soda 1 ½ cups semi-sweet chocolate chips

4 teaspoons vegetable shortening 1/3 cup chopped peanuts (optional)

Heat oven10 350º. Beat brown sugar, peanut butter and butter until
fluffy. Blend in water, egg substitute and vanilla. Add combined oats,
flour and baking soda; mixwell. Cover; chill 1 hour. Shaped into 1\"
balls. Place on ungreased cookie sheet. Using bottom of glass dipped in
sugar, press into ¼ \" thick circles. Bake 8 to 10 minutes or until
edges are golden brown. Remove to wire rack; cool completely.

Melt chocolate pieces as package directs; stir in vegetable shortening,
mixing until smooth. Top each cookie with ½ teaspoon melted chocolate;
sprinkle with chopped peanuts. Chill until set. Store tightly covered.
Makes about 6 dozen.

Easy Peanut Butter Cookies

1 (14 oz.) can EagleBrand Sweetened ¾ cup peanut butter

Condensed Milk (NOT evaporated milk) 2 cups Bisquik baking mix

1 teaspoon vanilla extract Granulated sugar

Preheat oven 375º. In large mixer bowl, beat sweetened condensed milkand
peanut butter until smooth. Add Bisquick mix and vanilla; mix well.
Shape into 1\" balls. Roll in sugar. Place 2\" apart on ungreased baking
sheets. Flatten with fork. Bake 6 to 8 minutes or until lightly browned
(do not overbake). Cool. Store tightly covered at room temperature.

Peanut Butter Blossoms

48 Hersheys Kisses Brand Milk Chocolates ½ cup shortening

¾ cup creamy peanut butter 1/3 cup sugar

1/3 cup packed light brown sugar 1 egg

2 tablespooons milk teaspoon vanilla extract

1 ½ cups all-purpose flour 1 teaspoon baking soda

½ teaspoon salt Additional granulated sugar

Heat oven to 375°. Remove wrappers from chocolates.

Beat shortening and peanut butter in large bowl until well blended. Add
1/3 cup sugar and brown sugar; beat until fluffy. Add egg, milk and
vanilla; beat well. Stir together flour, baking soda and salt; gradually
beat into peanut butter mixture.

Shape dough into 1" balls. Roll in granulated sugar; place on ungreased
cookie sheet.

Bake 8-10 minutes or until lightly browned. Immediately press a
chocolate into center of each cookie; cookie will crack around edges.
Remove from cookie sheet to wire race. Cool completely. Makes about 4
dozen cookies.

Chocolate Chip Cookies

½ cup butter ½ cup solid shortening

2 ½ cups brown sugar (1 box plus ½ cup) 2 beaten eggs

2 ½ cups plain flour ¼ teaspoon salt

½ teaspoon baking soda 1 package chocolate chips

1 cup pecans

Cream butter, shortening and sugar. Add eggs and beat well. Mix flour
with salt and soda. Add to wet mixture. Add pecans and chips. Drop onto
greased cookie sheet. Bake at 375º for 10 minutes.

Chocolate Chip Cookies

2/3 cup shortening 1 ½ cups packed light brown sugar

1 tablespoon water 1 teaspoon vanilla

2 eggs 1 ½ cups all-purpose flour

1/3 cup cocoa powder ½ teaspoon salt

¼ teaspoon baking soda 2 cups (12-oz.) semisweet chocolate chips

Heat oven to 375º. Beat shortening, brown sugar, water and vanilla in
large bowl on medium speed of mixer until well-blended. Add eggs; beat
well. Stir together flour, cocoa, salt and baking soda. Gradually add to
sugar mixture, beating on low speed just until blended. Stir in
chocolate chips. Drop by rounded tablespoonfuls 2\" apart onto ungreased
cookie sheet. Bake 7-9 minutes or until cookies are set. Cookies will
appear soft and moist. Do not overbake. Cool 2 minutes; remove from
cookie sheet to wire rack. Cool completely. Makes about 3 dozen cookies.

Irresistable Peanut Butter Cookies

¾ cup creamy peanut butter 1 egg

½ cup crisco or butter-flavored crisco or butter 1 ¾ cups all-purpose
flour

1 ¼ cups firmly packed light brown sugar ¾ teaspoon salt

3 tablespoons milk ¾ teaspoon baking soda

1 tablespoon vanilla

Heat oven to 375º. Combine peanut butter, crisco or butter(softened),
sugars, milk and vanilla in large bowl. Beat at medium speed of electric
mixer until well-blended. Add egg; beat just until blended. Combine
flour, salt and baking soda. Add to creamed mixture at low speed. Mix
until blended. Drop by heaping teaspoonfuls 2\" apart onto ungreased
baking sheet. Flatten slightly in crisscross pattern with tines of fork.
Bake one baking sheet at a time for 7 to 8 minutes, or until set and
just beginning to brown. Cool 2 minutes on baking sheet. Place sheets on
foil on countertop. Remove cookies to foil to cool completely. Makes
about3 dozen cookies.

Mrs. Field\'s Chocolate Chip Cookies

1 cup butter, softtened 2 cups all-purpose flour

1 cup firmly packed brown sugar 1 tablespoon baking soda

1 cup granulated sugar 1 tablespoon baking powder

2 teaspoons salt 2 ½ cups finely ground oatmeal\*

2 eggs 6 oz. Package chocolate chips

1 tablespoon vanilla 4 oz. Hershey\'s chocolate bar cut up

\*I use my food processor with the chopping blade to grind my oatmeal.

Cream butter and sugars. Add eggs and vanilla. Add dry ingredients and
mix well; add chocolates. Drop by teaspoonfuls on ungreased baking
sheets. Bake at 375º for 8 to 10 minutes.

Mrs. Field\'s Blue-Ribbon Chocolate Chip Cookies

2 ½ cups all-purpose flour ½ cup sugar

½ teaspoon baking soda 1 cup butter, softened

¼ teaspoon salt 2 eggs

1 cup dark brown sugar 2 teaspoons vanilla

2 cups semisweet chocolate chips

Preheat oven to 300º. Combine flour, soda and salt in a medium bowl and
set aside. In another bowl, beat together sugars and soft butter. Add
eggs and vanilla and beat until light and fluffy. Add dry ingredients
and chocolate chips and fold into dough until well mixed. Don\'t
overmix. Drop dough by tablespoonsful about 2\" apart on baking sheets.
Bake until golden brown (or less for softer cookie.)

Ulltimate Chocolate Chip Cookies

¾ -cup Butter-flavored Crisco or butter, softened 1 ¾ cups all-purpose
flour

1 ¼ cups firmly packed brown sugar 1 teaspoon salt

2 tablespoons milk ¾ teaspoon baking soda

1 tablespoon vanilla 1cup semi-sweet chocolate chips

1egg 1cup large pecan pieces

**Note:** If nuts are omitted, use 1 ½ cups semi-sweet chocolate pieces.

Heat oven to 375º. Cream crisco or butter with brown sugar, milk and
vanilla in large bowl. Blend in egg. Combine flour, salt and baking
soda. Add to creamed mixture, gradually. Stir in chocolate chips and
nuts. Drop rounded tablespoons (about 2 measuring tablespoons) of dough
3\" apart on ungreased baking sheets. Bake 8 to10 minutes for chewy
cookies (they will look light and moist -0 DO NOT OVERBAKE); 11 to 13
minutes for crisp cookies. Cool on baking sheet for 2 minutes. Remove to
cooling rack. Mkes 3 dozen 3\" cookies.

Double Chocolate Chip Cookies

1 (6 oz.) package semisweet chocolate ½ cup granulated sugar

chips, divided ½ cup firmly packed brown sugar

1 ½ cups all-purpose flour 1 egg

1 teaspoon baking powder 1 teaspoon vanilla extract

½ teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons milk

½ cup shortening or butter, softened 1 cup chopped pecans

Place ½ cup chocolate chips in top of a double boiler; bring water to a
boil. Reduce heat to low; cook until chocolate melts, stirring
occasionally. Set aside to cool. Combine flour, baking powder and salt;
set aside. Cream shortening (or butter); gradually add sugars, beating
well at medium speed with electric mixer. Add melted chocolate, egg and
vanilla; beat well. Stir in milk. Gradually add flour mixture, and mix
well. Stir in remaining ½ cup chocolate chips and pecans. Drop dough by
heaping teaspoonfuls onto lightly greased cookie sheets. Bake at 350º
for 10 to 12 minutes or until done. Let cool slightly; carefully
transfer cookies to wire racks to cool completely. Makes about 6 dozen.

Double-Chocolate Delights

1 cup butter, melted 1 ½ cups sugar

½ cup cocoa 2 teaspoons baking soda

1 teaspoon salt 2 teaspoons vanilla extract

4 eggs, beaten 3 cups all-purpose flour

1 cup chopped nuts 2 cups chocolate chips

Preheat oven to 350° with rack in middle position. Melt butter; add
sugar and mix. Add cocoa, baking soda, salt and vanilla. Stir until
smooth. Add eggs, stri thoroughly. Mix in flour, chopped nuts and
chocolate chips. Place rounded teaspoons of dough on greased cookie
sheet. Bake for 10 minutes. Cool on cookie sheet for 2 minutes. Remove
to wire rack to cool completely. Store in airtight container.

Chocolate Fudge Boiled Cookies

2 cups sugar ½ cup milk

1 stick butter ¾ tablespoon cocoa

½ cup peanut butter 1 to 2 teaspoons vanilla

1 ½ to 3 cups quick-cooking oatmeal ½ to 1 cup chopped nuts

Boil sugar, milk, butter and cocoa for 1 to 1 ½ minutes (start time
after mixture reaches a full rolling boil.) Remove from heat and add
peanut butter, oatmeal, vanilla and nuts. Beat until blended and drop by
teaspoonful on wax paper.

Fudge Cookies

3 cups sugar ½ cup milk

½ cup cocoa ½ cup butter

1 teaspoon vanilla 3 cups quick-cooking oatmeal

1 cup confectioner's sugar

Bring sugar, milk, cocoa, butter and vanilla to boil; boil 1 minute.
Pour hot mixture over oatmeal and nuts; stir until blended. Drop by
teaspoons into sifted confectioner's sugar and roll while hot. Place on
wax paper until cookies harden.

Chocolate Cookies

2 cups sugar ½ cup cocoa

½ cup milk 1 stick butter

½ teaspoon salt 3 cups quick-cooking oats

1 cup coconut ½ cup chopped nuts

1 teaspoon vanilla

Mix sugar, cocoa, milk, butter and salt in saucepan. Cook to rolling
boil. Add remaining ingredients. Mix well and drop by teaspoonfuls onto
wax paper. Makes 4 dozen.

Choco-Scotch Clusters

1 (6-oz.) Nestle's Semi-Sweet Chocolate Morsels 1 (6-oz.) Nestles's
Butterscotch

¼ cup peanut butter Flavored Morsels

4 cups Rice Krispies

Melt chocolate, butterscotch and peanut butter together in heavy
saucepan over low heat, stirring constantly until well-blended. Remove
from heat. Add Rice Krispies; stir until well-coated. Drop by
tablespoonful onto waxed paper or butteered baking sheet. Let stand in
cool place until firm.

These can be pressed into a buttered pan and cut into squares when firm.

Ultimate Sugar Cookies

1 ¼ cups granulated sugar 3 cups all-purpose flour (plus 4 tablespoons

1cup butter, softened divided)

2 eggs ¾ teaspoon baking powder

¼ cup light corn syrup ½ teaspoon baking soda

1 tablespoon vanilla ½ teaspoon salt

Heat oven to 375º. Combine sugar and butter in large bowl. Beat at
medium speed of electric mixer until well-blended. Add eggs, syrup and
vanilla. Beat until well-blended and fully. Combine 3 cups flour, baking
powder, baking soda and salt. Add gradually to creamed mixture at low
speed. Mix until well-blended. If you do not want to make these into
sugar cookies to cut into shapes and decorate, at this point drop dough
by heaping teaspoonful onto baking sheets and bake 8 to 10 minutes. Cool
on wire racks. If you want to make sugar cookies to roll and cut into
shapes and decorate, continue. Divide dough into 4 quarters. Tip: If
dough is too sticky or too soft to roll: wrap each quarter of dough with
plastic wrap. Refrigerate at least 1 hour.

Spread 1 tablespoon of flour on large sheet of waxed paper. Place ¼ of
dough on floured paper. Flatten slightly with hands. Turn dough over and
cover with another large sheet of waxed paper. Roll dough to ¼ \"
thickness. Cut out with floured cutter. Transfer to ungreased baking
sheetwith large pancake turner. Place 2\" apart. Sprinkle with
granulated sugar or colored sugar crystals, or leave plain to frost when
cooled.

Baking one baking sheet at at time for 5 to 9 minutes depending on the
size of your cookies (bake smaller, thinner cookies closer to 5 minutes;
larger cookies closer to 9 minutes.) DO NOT OVERBAKE. Cool 2 minutes on
baking sheet. Place sheets of foil on countertop. Remove cookiers to
foil to cool completely, then frost if desired. Makes about 3 to 4 dozen
cookies.

Blissful Sugar Cookies

2/3 cup butter, softened 1 cup sugar

1 egg 1 tablespooon milk

½ teaspoon vanilla 2 cups all-purpose flour

½ teaspoon baking soda ½ teaspoon salt

About 66 Hershey's Bliss Milk Chocolates, divided

Beat butter and sugar in largew bowl; add egg, milk and vanilla,
blending thoroughly. Stir together flour, baking soda and salt. Add to
butter mixture, blending well. Refrigerate dough about 1 hour or until
firm enough to handle. (Dough will still be a little soft.)

Heat oven to 350°. Lightly greast gookie sheet or line with parchment
paper. Remove wrappers from chocolates.

Roll dough into 1 inch balls. For each cookie, flatten ball slightly;
press chocolate piece into dough. Mold dough around chocolate so that it
is completely covered. Place on prepared cookie sheet. Bake 10-12
minutes or until cookie is set. Cool slightly; remove from cookie sheet
to wire rack. Cool completely.

Chop remaining chocolates; place in small microwave-safe bowl. Microwave
at MEDIUM (50%) for 30 seconds; stir. If necessary, microwave at MEDIUM
an additional 10 seconds at a time, stirring after each heating, until
chocolate is melted when stirred. Drizzle over tops of cookies; allow to
set. About 4 ½ dozen cookies.

Nutty Fingers

Ruth Stinson

1 pound butter, softened 2 cups powdered sugar

5 cups flour (measure after sifting) 2 tablespoons water

1 tablespoon vanilla 1 teaspoon salt

2 cups chopped nuts

Mix dry ingredients; add wet ingredients. Stir in nuts. Roll
finger-sized. Bake until light brown in 350° oven. Dust with powdered
sugar while still warm.

Spiced Springtime Sugar Cookies

2-1/3 cups flour 1 ¼ cups sugar

1 teaspoon baking soda 1 cup butter, softened

1 teaspoon ground cinnamon 1 egg

¼ teaspoon ground nutmeg 2 teaspoons vanilla

¼ teaspoon salt

Mix flour, baking soda, cinnamon,nutmeg and salt; set aside. Beat sugar
and butter in large bowl with electric mixer on medium speed until light
and fluffy. Add egg and vanilla; mix well. Gradually beat in flour
mixture on low speed until well mixed. Refrigerate 2 hours or overnight
until firm. Roll out dough on lightly floured surface to 1/8\"
thickness. Cut into shapes with cookie cookies. Place on greased baking
sheets. Bake in preheated 375º oven 8 to 10 minutes or until lightly
browned. Cool on bakingsheets 1 minute. Remove to wire racks; cool
completely. Decorate cooled cookies with *Colorful Cookie Glaze*
(below). Place on wire racks to dry.

***Colorful Cookie Glaze***: Mix 1 cup confectioners\' sugar, 3 ½
teaspoons milk, 2 teaspoons light corn syrup, ¼ teaspoon vanilla and 3-4
drops food color until glazeis smooth. Add additional drops of food
color until glazeis of desired color. Makes 6 dozen.

Amish Sugar Cookies

Ginger Koerner

4 ½ cups all-purpose flour 2 eggs

1 cup sugar 1 teaspoon vanilla

1 cup powdered sugar 1 teaspoon cream of tarter

1 cup butter, softened 1 teaspoon baking soda

1 cup cooking oil 1 teaspoon salt

Blend sugar, butter and oil. Add eggs and vanilla. Combine flour, cream
of tarter, baking soda and salt. Add to sugar mixture and mix well.
Additional flour if needed. Drop small ballsof dough onto cookie sheet
and press with small glass dipped in granulated sugar. Bake at 375º 8 to
12 minutes. Makes 6 to 8 dozen. (Ovens vary; so keep an eye on cookies
so they don\'t burn.)

Ginger uses a cookie scoop to drop cookies. Do not grease pans. Remove
cookes while still warm.

Ginger\'s instructions: I dump butter, sugars,oil, eggs, cream of
tarter, salt,baking soda and vanilla,mixingasI go; then add flour last.
Use a cookie scoop to drop dough onto cookie sheets; then mash with a
flat-bottomed glass dipped in granulated sugar. Bake 8-9 minutes.

Sugar Cookies

Brian Willett

¾ cup cooking oil ½ teaspoon soda

¾ sugar ½ teaspoon cream of tarter

1 egg, slightly beaten ½ teaspoon salt

2 cups all-purpose flour 1 teaspoon vanilla

Mix in order listed; roll into balls and roll in granualted sugar; press
with fork. Bake 10 minutes in 350º oven.

Cherub Coins

Pat Cliggett

¾ cup butter, softened 1 ½ cups firmly packed light brown sugar

1 egg, unbeaten 2 cups sifted cake flour

1/8 teaspoon baking soda ½ teaspoon salt

¼ cup finely chopped pecans

Creambutter and sugar; add egg and mix well. Mix together sifted flour,
soda and salt. Add gradually and mix well after each addition. Stir in
chopped pecans. Chill overnight. Shape into tiny balls 1/2\" in
diameter. Place on greased cookie sheets; flatten slightly with thumb.
Bake on greased cookie sheets at 375º for 8to 10 minutes. Let stand a
few minutes before removing from cookier sheets. Makes about 10 dozen.

Heathbar Cookies

Cream: 3 sticks butter, softened

1 ½ cups granulated sugar

2 teaspoons vanilla

Sift: 3 cups all-purpose flour

½ teaspoon soda

Add flour mixture to sugar mixture.

Crush 6 Heath Bars. Mix with above mixture. Make into logs and roll in
wax papaer. Chill 2 hours. Slice and bake 15to 18 at 325º.

Praline Cookies

Carole Reed

1-2/3 cups sifted flour 1 ½ teaspoons baking powder

½ teaspoon salt ½ cup butter, softened

1 ½ cups brown sugar 1 egg

1 teaspoon vanilla 1 cup pecan halves

Sift flour, baking powder and salt; set aside. Cream butter and sugar
gradually, creaming well. Blend in egg, vanilla and dry ingredients; mix
well. Drop by rounded teaspoonful onto ungreased baking sheeet. Bake at
350º for 10-12 minutes. Break pecan halves into 2-4 pieces. Place 4o-o5
pieces on each cookier. Drizzle a teaspoon of Praline Frosting over top
of each cookie.

*Praline Frosting*:

1 cup firmly packed brown sugar ½ cup cream

1 cup confectioner\'s sugar, sifted

Combine sugar and cream in small saucepan. Bring to boil; stirring
constantly; boil 2 more minutes. Remove from heat Blend in
confectioner\'s sugar; beat until smooth If frosting thickens, thin with
extra cream.

M&M Cookies

2 sticks butter 2/3 cup brown sugar

2/3 cup granulated sugar 1 egg

1 ½ teaspoon vanilla 1 ½ teaspoon baking soda

1 teaspoon salt 1 ¾ cups M&M's Milk Chocolate Candies

Preheat oven to 350°. In a large bowl, cream butter and both sugars
until well blended. Add the egg and vanilla and mix to combine. In a
separate bowl, sift the flour, baking soda and salt together. Slowly add
these ingredients into the butter mixture and stir until combined. Fold
in the M&M's and chill the dough for 1 hour or overnight. Drop dough by
rounded tablespoon onto a lightly greased tray, about 2 inches apart.
Bake for 8-10 minutes for chewy cookies or 12-14 for crispy cookies.

Decorated Cookies

1 cup granulated sugar 2 teaspoons baking soda

1 cup vegetable shortening ¼ teaspoon salt

1 egg 1 teaspoon vanilla

1cup sour cream 4 cups flour, stirred with a fork and then measured

Bakery Icing:

2 egg whites

3 ½ cups confectione'rs sugar

1 stick butter, softened

½ teaspoon vanilla

pinch of salt

To make cookies, cream the sugar, shortening and egg together. Mix in
the sour cream, baking soda, salt and vanilla extract. Slowly, stir in
flour. The dough should come away from the sides of the bowl and should
be soft but not sticky. Shape into 3 balls.

Lightly grease a cookie sheet with shortening or cover the cookie sheet
with parchment paper. Heat the oven to 350º.

Roll each ball outon a floured board into a thin (1/8\") circle. Make
shapes with cookie cutter Place on the prepared sheet and bake, one
sheet at a time, until lightly browned at the edges, 10 to 12 minutes.
Let cool slightly. Transfer to a rack and let cool completely. Store in
an airtight container.

To make the icing, beat the egg whites in a small bowl stiff but not
dry. Set aside. Cream the butter and half of the confectioners sugar
together. Add the remaining half of the sugar and the vanilla extract
and salt and beat until smooth. Sir in the beaten egg whites. Transfer
to a jar. Cover and store in the refrigerator. When ready to juse, add 1
to 2 drops of water and beat again if necessary to make the icing smooth
and easy to spread. Makes about 5 dozen cookies and about 2 cups iciing.

Fruit Cake Cookies #1

3 cups flour 1 teaspoon cnnamon

1 teaspoon allspice 1 teaspoon nutmeg

1 teaspoon cloves 1 quart broken pecans

2 cups seedless raisins 2 lbs. Candied fruit (pineapple, green and red &
1 cup butter cherries)

1 cup sugar 6 eggs

1 cup whiskey or sherry (optional)

Sift all dry ingredients. Chop the pecans and fruit. Flour the fruit and
pecans with 1 cup of the flour. Set aside. Cream butter and sugar and
add eggs. Add dry ingredients. Fold in liquid followed by fruit. Drop by
teaspoon on cookie sheets. Bake at 350º for 12-15 minutes. Store
covdered and tighly.

Fruit Cake Cookies #2

1 stick butter, softened 1 ½ cups brown sugar

4 eggs 3 cups plain flour\*

3 teaspoons baking soda 3 tablespoons milk

1 cup whiskey (optional) or extra milk 2 lbs. Candied cherries

1 lb. white raisins 1 lb. dark raisins

6 cups pecans 1 teaspoon cinnamon

1 teaspoon all-spice 1 teaspooon cloves

Cream butter and sugar. Add eggs and beat well. Chop fruit and nuts and
\*use 1 cup of flour to mix with fruit. Add floured fruit to butter
mixture. Add 2 cups flour and spices and mix to batter. Cook at 300º for
20 minutes.

Fruit Cake Cookies #3

Pat Hill

1 cup butter, softened 1 ½ cups sugar

2 eggs 2 ½ cups all-purpose flour

1 teaspoon cinnamon ½ teaspoon salt

1 teaspoon baking soda 2 (8-oz.) packages chopped dates

3 cups chopped pecans 1 (8-oz.) package candied pineapple

1 (8-oz.) package candied red cheeries (cut in quarters) -- can use 4
oz. each red and green

Cream butter; gradually add sugar and beat until light and fluffy. Add
eggs and beat well. Combine flour, salt, soda and cinnamon. Gradually
add dry mixture to creamed mixture beating well after each addition.
Stir remaining ingredients into bowl by hand. Drop by heaping teaspoon
onto greased cookie sheet. Bake at 375º for 11-13 minutes or until
lightly browned. Cool on cookie sheet for 1 minute. Remove from pans.
Makes about 7 dozen.

Old-Fashioned Fruitcake Cookies\*

Aubret H. White (Pine Level, Alabama)

1 cup halved dried cheeries 1 cup dried currants

1 cup chopped pitted dates 1 cup golden raisins

1 cup brown raisins 1 cup chopped candied orange peel

6 tablespoons bourbon, divided 6 tablespoons dry Sherry, divided

9 to 10 dozen paper or foil bonbon-size 1 cup coarsely chopped walnuts
baking cups 1 cups all-purpose flour

1 teaspoon baking powder ½ teaspoon salt

½ teaspoon cinnamon ½ teaspoon nutmeg

1 cup sugar ½ cup unsalted butter, softened

2 eggs

Toss cheeries, currants, dates, raisns and orange peel together. Mix 4
tablespoons each bourbon and sherry. Cover; soak 2-24 hours. Position
rack in center of oven; preheat to 325º. Arrange about 36 baking cups on
each of 3 rimmed cookie sheets. Stir walnuts, then 1 cup flour into
fruit mixture, coating evenly. Whisk 1 cup flour, baking powder, salt
and spices in mediium bowl. Beat sugar and butter in another large bowl
until smooth. Beat in egg, one at a time. Beat in dry ingredients, then
remaining 2 tablespoons each bourbon and shrry. Fold in fruit mixture.
Drop batter by heaping tablespoonfuls into baking cups. Bake cookiers, 1
sheet at a time, until light brown, about 23 minutes. Cool. Garnish with
Glaze.

*Glaze*:

1 cup (packed) powdered sugar 4 teaspoons (or more) bourbon

4 teaspoons (or more) sherry Diced or slivered candied orange peel

Mix sugar, bourbon and sherry in bowl. Spoon glaze over cookies; garnish
with peel. Let stand until glaze sets, at least 1 hours.

Note: Cookies can be made up to 1 week ahead Store between sheets of
waxed paper in airtight container at room temperature.

\*This is Lou writing: I think this is entirely too complicated and time
consuming when Pat Hill\'s cookies are so good. I also do not use
alcohol in my cooking. But I wanted to include this because I cut it out
of the newspaper years ago when this man (very elderly) told about the
fruit cakes and fruit cake cookies he makes every year. The recipe for
is fruit cake is included in the cake section.

Orange Spice Cookies

1 cup ganulated sugar 1 cup powdered sugar

1cup butter, softened 1 cup vegetable shortening

2 eggs 4 cups all-purpose flour

2 teaspoons grated orange peel 1 teaspoon cream of tarter

1 teaspoon baking soda ½ teaspoon ground cardamon

¼ teaspoon ginger ¼ teaspoon salt

1 ½ cups ground pecans (optional) Granulated sugar

In large mixing bowl, combine 1 cup granulated sugar, powdered sugar,
butter, shortening and eggs. Beat at medium speed of electric mixer
until light and fluffy. Add flour, peel, cream of tarter, baking soda,
cardamon, ginger, salt and ground pecans. Beat at low speed until soft
dough forms. Cover with plastic wrap. Chill 1 to 2 hours, or until firm.

Heat oven to 350º. Shape dough into 1\" balls. Roll balls in granulated
sugar. Place balls 2\" apart on ungreased cookie sheets. Flatten balls
with bottom of drinking glass, wiping glass with damp cloth to prevent
stickong. Bake for 12 to 13 minutes, or until light golden brown. Let
cool 1 minute before removing from cookie sheets. Cool completely before
storing. Makes 5 dozen cookies.

Orange Slice Cookies

Connie Smith

1 cup white sugar 1 cup brown sugar

1 cup butter 2 eggs

1 tablespoon milk 1 tablespoon vanilla

2 cups self-rising flour 2 cups quick-cooking oatmeal

1 cup pecans 1 lb. Orange slice candy (cut into pieces)

1 can Angel Flake coconut (optional)

Cream sugars and buttter. Mix remaining ingredients well. Spon on baking
sheet lined with parchment paper. Bake at 375° for 10 minutes. Makes 9
dozen.

Pumpkin Cookies

4 cups unsifted all-purpose flour 2 cups regular or quick oats

2 teaspoons baking soda 2 teaspoons cinnamon

1 teaspoon salt 1 ½ cups butter, softened

2 cups firmly packed brown sugar 1 cup granulated sugar

1 egg 1 teaspoon vanilla

1 can (16 oz) Libby\'s Solid Pack Pumpkin 1 cup semi-sweet chocolate
chips (or raisins)

Assorted icings or peanut butter Assorted candies, raisins or nuts

Preheat oven to 350º. Combine flour, oats, soda, cinnamon and salt; set
aside. Cream butter; gradually add sugars, beating until light and
fluffy. Add egg and vanilla; mix well.. Alternate additions of dry
ingredients and pumpkin, mixing well after each addition. Stir in
chocolate chips. For each cookie, drop ¼ cup dough only lightly greased
cookie sheet; spread into pumpkin shape using a thin metal spatula. Add
a bit more dough to from stem. Bake at 350º for 20-25 minutes, until
cookies are firm and lightly browned. Remove from cookie sheets; cool on
racks. Decorate using icing or peanut butter to affix assorted candies,
raisins or nuts. Yields about 32 large cookies.

Tea Cakes #1

Mama Franklin

1 cup sugar, granulated 2 sticks butter, softened

2 eggs 1 teaspoon vanilla

2 teaspoons baking powder 4 tablespoons cream, milk

Flour, enough to be able to roll

Cream butter and sugar; add eggs and beat well. Add vanilla. Add
remaining ingredients. Roll out and cut and bake at 350° for 10-12
minutes or until lightly brown. Do not overbake.

Tea Cakes #2

Mama Franklin

1 cup sugar 2 sticks butter, softened

3 eggs 2 teaspoons baking powder

Flour, about 3 cups 1 teaspoon vanilla

Sift baking powder with 1 cup flour and set aside. Cream butter and
sugar; add and beat eggs with mixture; add vanilla. Mix 1 cup of flour
with baking powder in with wet ingredients. Use additional flour to make
dough to roll and cut. Bake at 350° for 10-12 minutes or until lightly
brown. Do not overbake.

Tea Cakes #3

Mama Franklin

(Based on driections, this must have been written on a day she was
busy.)

½ cup butter ½ cup sugar

1 egg Pinch of salt

1 cup flour Vanilla flavoring

Mix good. Roll thin. Bake.

(I would follow directions she gave for the first two recipes in baking
these. She was probably hunger for something sweet and put these
together for a quick snack -- based on amount of each ingredient.)

Old-Fashioned Souther Tea Cakes #4

2 ¼ cups all-purpose flour 1 cup sugar

¾ cup melted butter 1 ½ teaspoons vanilla

2 teaspoons baking powder 1 egg

Preheat oven to 350°. Mix all ingredients together until moist. Roll out
dough o a floured surface and cut tea cakes to desired size. Bake until
done, depending on degree of thickness.

Tea Cakes #5

2 eggs 1 cup sugar

1 cup butter 2 teaspoon baking powder

4 Tablespoons milk Flour (enough to be able to roll cookies)

Add all ingredients. Roll out; cut and bake at 350°.

Tea Cakes #6

2 cups sifted flour ¼ teaspoon allsice

1 cup butter 5 tablespoons sifted confectioner's sugar

1 teaspoon vanilla 2 tablespoons water

Prepared pie filling

Sift together flour and allspice; set aside. Work butter until soft; add
confectioner's sugar, vanilla and water. Add flour mixure; work with
spoon or fingers until blened. Roll dough into small balls. Place on
greased cookie sheets. Press on greased cookie sheets. Press in center
of each cookie and fill with prepared pie filling. Bake at 350° for 15
minutes.

Tea Cookies #7\*

¾ cup oil ¾ cup sugar

1 egg, slightly beaten 2 cups all-purpose flour

½ teaspoon soda ½ teaspoon cream of tarter

½ teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon vanilla

Extra granulated sugar

Mix in order (left to right). Roll into balls and place on greased
cookie sheet or cookie sheet with parchment paper. Press with fork. Put
granulated sugar on top. Bake 10 minutes at 350°.

\*I have made these many times; the cookies are hard and crisp instead
of soft like so many other tea cookies.

Coconut Macaroons

2/3 cup Eagle Brand Sweetened Condensed 3 cups (2 cans -- 4 oz.) moist
shredded

Milk ( ½ can or 7 ½ oz.) coconut

1 teaspoon vanilla ¾ teaspoon almond extract

In medium-sized mixing bowl blend together all ingredients. Drop
teaspoonfuls, about 1 inch apart, onto well-greased cookie sheet. Bake
in 350° oven until cookie edges are lightly browned, 8-10 minutes.
Remove at once from cookie sheet.

Linzer Trees

3 cups all-purpose flour 1 cup finely chopped pistachio nuts

¼ teaspoon salt 1 ¾ sticks butter, softened

1 cup confectioner's sugar & more for dusting 2 large eggs

1 teaspoon vanilla ¼ cup seedless raspberry jam

Whisk together flour, pistachios and salt in large bowl; set aside.

In another large bowl, beat butter and sugar until smooth, about 3
minutes. Beat in eggs and vanilla. May look curtled. On low speed, beat
in flour mixture. Divide dough in half; form 2 discs. Wrap in plastic;
refrigerate for 2 hours.

Heat oven to 350°. Working with ½ dough at a time, roll out on floured
surface to 3/16" thick. Using a 3" tree cutter, cut out cookies and
place on prepared baking sheet. Using a drink straw, cut out "ornaments"
from ½ the cookies. Reroll the dough scraps if necessary and repeat the
rest of the dough. Makes 48 cookies.

Bake at 350° for 11 minutes or until cookies just begin to turn golden.
Remove from baking sheets to wire rack.

Dust half of the cutout cookies with confectioners' sugar. Spread ½
teaspoon raspberry jam on each remaining cookie. Place cutout cookies on
top of jam sprad cookies. Let stand at room temperature until sset.
