---
layout: recipe
title: "Poultry And Stuffings"
category: "Poultry"
---

# Poultry And Stuffings

**Chicken Kiev**

4 chicken breasts 2 tablespoons chives

2 tablespoons parsley flakes Dash of garlic powder, optional

½ teaspoon salt ¼ teaspoon pepper

1 stick butter, melted 2 eggs, beaten

Bread or cracker crumbs

Mix everything but chicken breasts and divide into 8 equal parts; roll
into balls and refrigerate. Meanwhile cut the 4 chicken breasts in half.
Pound the chicken breasts on cutting board; place plastic wrap on top of
chicken as you pound. Pound into very thin pieces, with no holes. Place
one butter ball in center of each piece and fold sides to seal in
butter. May use toothpicks to hold together. Roll each ball in the
beaten eggs and then in dry bread crumbs or crushed cracker crumbs until
well-coated. Refrigerate.

When ready to cook, deep fry in oil at 375° for 5-7 minutes. Serve hot;
8 servings.

**Stuffed Chicken Breasts**

10-oz. Swiss cheese, diced 2 eggs, lightly beaten

3 tablespoons seasoned bread crumbs 3 tablespoons chopped fresh parsley

¼ teaspoon salt 1/8 teaspoon pepper

Pinch nutmeg 6 large boneless chicken breasts,

2 tablespoons olive or vegetable oil pounded thin

2 cups Ragu Chunky Garden style Spaghetti

Sauce

In a medium bowl, thoroughly combine cheese, eggs, bread crumbs,
parsley, salt, pepper and nutmeg. Place ¼ cup cheese mixture in the
center of each chicken breast. Roll and secure with toothpicks. In a
large skillet, thoroughly brown chicken on all sides in hot oil; drain
fat. Pour spaghetti sauce over chicken. Simmer covered for 45 minutes or
until chicken is done. Serves 6.

**Chicken with Beef**

> C.J. Savage

1-4 oz. jar dried beef 6 slices bacon

6 chicken breasts 1 can cream of mushroom soup

1 cup sour cream 1 cup cooked rice

Place dried beef on bottom of 9x13" Pyrex dish. Wrap one slice bacon
around each chicken breast; place the bacon end side down on the beef.
Sprinkle with pepper. Blend other ingredients and pour over chicken.
Bake at 275° for 3 hours.

NOTE: I omit the rice in the dish and serve the chicken and gravy over
steamed rice.

**Chicken a la Bebe**

Bebe Arnold

Chicken Melted Butter

Crushed Rice Crispies

Dip cut up chicken in melted butter. Roll in crushed Rice Crispies.
Place on baking sheet; bake 1 hour at 350°.

**Cheese Chicken**

4 whole chicken breasts, split in two 4 thighs, 4 legs\*

1 stick butter 4 tablespoons salad oil

Flour 1 can cream of chicken soup

Milk 2 cups grated, sharp Cheddar cheese

2 teaspoons paprika

Heat butter and salad oil in heavy skillet. Shake chicken pieces in
seasoned flour in a paper bag to coat evenly. Brown in medium hot fat,
then arrange chicken in single layer in roasting pan or broiler pan. Set
aside,

Measure fat (let in skillet) and add an equal amount of flour. Stir fat
and flour to blend. Add milk a little at a time, being sure to include
pan drippings in your gravy. When it is of a medium consistency, add
cream of chicken soup. Stir until smooth.

Spoon the gravy over chicken, sprinkle with cheese, then with paprika.
Bake 1 hour, uncovered at 300°, until chicken is fork-tender.

NOTE: This may be prepared early in the day and refrigerated until time
to heat.

\*You may use chicken breasts if you prefer all white meat. Use a total
of 8 chicken breasts. Makes 8 servings.

**Chicken and Dressing Casserole**

8 or 9" pan of cooked cornbread 4-6 chicken breasts, boiled and chopped

1 cup chopped onion 1 cup chopped celery

1 stick butter 1 can cream of celery soup

1 can cream of chicken soup Chicken broth, canned is okay

2-3 boiled eggs Extra melted butter

Bake the cornbread according to package directions; let cool and then
crumble. Cook chicken breasts and save the broth. Sauté onion and celery
in the butter. Mix sautéed onion, celery, soups and broth (I either use
1 can of broth or broth from chicken, if it is rich.) Boil eggs and
slice into rings.

Assemble: Layer ½ bread crumbs in 9x13" Pyrex dish. Layer chopped
chicken on crumbs. Layer boiled eggs. Then pour the soup mixture over
this. Top with rest of bread crumbs. Add extra melted butter over the
top. Bake at 350° until bubbly.

**BBQ Chicken**

¾ cup wine vinegar ¼ cup oil

1 teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon accent

1 teaspoon cayenne pepper 1 teaspoon paprika

¼ teaspoon ground red pepper ¼ teaspoon hot pepper sauce

2 whole chickens Bottled BBQ Sauce, tomato based

Mix all ingredients except chicken. Quarter the chickens (i.e.
breast/wing, leg/thigh) -- makes 8 pieces. Place in large ovenproof pan.
Baste with the liquid mixture while baking at 300-350°.

Turn and baste; continue until chicken is done. Add a tomato basted BBQ
Sauce last 5 minutes and baste on both sides of chicken.

**Chicken Spaghetti**

4 large chicken breasts 1 bell pepper, chopped

1 onion, chopped 1 (12-oz) package spaghetti or vermicelli

2 cans cream of mushroom soup ½ can milk

1 stick butter

Cook chicken in seasoned water until tender. Remove and chop into small
pieces. Cook spaghetti, onion and pepper in broth (from chicken). Strain
and add butter, soups, milk and chopped chicken. Mix well. Pour into
large casserole dish (sprayed with Pam). Cover and bake at 350° for 45
minutes or more until bubbly.

NOTE: Grated Cheddar cheese can be added on top during last 5 minutes of
baking

**Fruited Chicken Salad**

½ cup mayonnaise 1 tablespoon lemon juice

½ teaspoon salt ¼ teaspoon pepper

2 cups chicken breasts, cooked and cut-up 1 cup celery, chopped

1 cup seedless green grapes or 1 can (11-oz.)

Mandarin orange segments, drained

Mix mayonnaise, lemon juice, salt and pepper. Toss with chicken and
celery. Cover and refrigerate. Stir in grapes; serve on lettuce cups, if
desired. Makes 4 servings.

OPTIONS:

**Chicken-Bacon Salad**: Omit grapes. Stir 4 slices bacon, crisply fried
and crumbled, into salad just before serving.

**Chicken-Egg Salad**: Omit grapes. Add 2 hard-cooked eggs, chopped,
with the chicken.

**Chicken-Macaroni Salad**: Omit grapes. Increase mayonnaise to 1 cup
and stir in 2 cups cooked elbow macaroni.

**Oriental Chicken Salad**

> Lynn Mathison

4 cooked, cubed chicken breasts 3 green onions, chopped

1 small can Chinese noodles 1 tablespoon poppy seeds

1 small package slivered almonds 1 finely chopped green apple

Dressing

*[Dressing]{.underline}*:

4 tablespoons sugar 8 tablespoons vinegar

¼ cup salad oil ½ teaspoon pepper

1 teaspoon salt

Mix dressing together the night before serving. Pour dressing on chicken
4 hours before serving. Add apple and poppy seeds and onion to chicken.
Place noodles and almonds on top immediately before serving.

**Hot Chicken Salad**

Duanne Namasky

1 cups cold diced chicken breasts 2 tablespoons lemon juice

1 teaspoon salt ¾ cup mayonnaise

1 can sliced water chestnuts, drained (optional) 2 cups diced celery

4 hard-boiled eggs, diced ¾ cup cream of chicken soup, concentrate

1 teaspoon finely minced onion, optional 4 oz. chopped pimentos

1 cup grated Cheddar or Longhorn cheese 1 ½ cups crushed potato chips

2/3 cup slivered almonds

Combine all ingredients except cheese, chips and almonds. Pour into
greased casserole dish. Refrigerate overnight. Preheat oven at 400°. Add
toppings of cheese, chips and almonds. Bake for 25-30 minutes. You may
substitute pecans for almonds.

**Hot Chicken Salad #2**

> Found in local newspaper

2 cups chopped, cooked chicken 1 cup chopped celery

1 cup cooked rice ¾ cup mayonnaise

3 hard-boiled eggs, chopped 1 teaspoon chopped onion

1 teaspoon salt 8 oz. sliced water chestnuts, drained

1 can cream of chicken soup 1 cups crushed corn flakes or potato chips

½ cup slivered almonds ¼ cup butter, melted

Combine everything except butter, corn flakes and almonds. Pour into
greased casserole dish. Combine butter, corn flakes and almonds.
Sprinkle over casserole; bake at 350° for 35 minutes.

**Oriental Chicken Salad**

> Lynn Mathison

4 chicken breasts, cooked and cubed 2 green onions, chopped

1 small can Chinese noodles 1 tablespoon poppy seeds

1 small package slivered almonds 1 finely chopped green apple

Salad dressing (see below)

Make salad dressing the night before by adding 4 tablespoons sugar, 8
tablespoons vinegar, ¼ cup salad oil, ½ teaspoon pepper and 1 teaspoon
salt. Four hours before serving the salad, mix the dressing with all the
ingredients except noodles and almonds. When ready to serve, add noodles
and almonds and mix.

**Chicken Chow Mein**

1 cup celery, sliced 1 cup green pepper, chopped

2 ½ cups (or more) shredded chicken 2 tablespoons butter

2 tablespoons cornstarch 1 cup chicken broth

1 can bean sprouts, drained 1 can water chestnuts, sliced

½ package Lipton onion soup mix 2-3 teaspoons soy sauce

Chinese noodles Slivered almonds

Sauté celery and pepper in butter until tender. Add cornstarch and
gradually add chicken broth. Stir in onion soup mix and soy sauce. Add
bean sprouts and water chestnuts. Serve with noodles and almonds.

**Chicken Pot Pie**

> Nina Rainwater

2 cups chicken, cooked & deboned 1 cup chicken broth

1 can cream of chicken soup 1 can cream of celery soup

2 cans mixed vegetables with liquid 1/8 teaspoon pepper

1 cup Bisquick ½ stick butter, softened

1 cup milk

Spray pan and line with chicken. Mix broth, soups vegetables and liquid,
and pepper. Pour over chicken. Mix Bisquick, butter and milk. Spoon over
the top of pie. Bake 45 minutes at 400°.

**Chicken Pie**

> Betty Ward

1 chicken, cooked and cut up 1 can cram of chicken soup

Chicken broth, enough to moisten 1 hard-boiled egg, chopped

Mix all ingredients and pour into 2 uncooked pie shells. Bake at 350°
until pie shells are brown, about 30-40 minutes.

**Chicken and Wild Rice**

E'Wanna Thompson

1 (6-oz.) boxes Uncle Ben's seasoned 1 medium onion, chopped

Long-Grain & Wild Rice, cooked 2 cups celery, chopped

½ garlic bud, optional 1 large can mushrooms

1 can pimento, optional 2/3 cup of parsley, fresh

½ cup slivered almonds 1 stick butter

2 whole chickens, boiled, deboned and chopped\* Salt and pepper to taste

Buttered breadcrumbs Slivered almonds

3 cups medium cream sauce

Make a cream sauce. (I melt 1 tablespoon butter, mixed with 1 tablespoon
flour and 1 cup milk for each cup I need; i.e. triple this, and cook
until medium consistency. This recipe may need a little more sauce than
this amount to prevent from being dry.)

Cook rice as directed on package. Sauté onions, celery, and garlic,
chicken, mushrooms, pimento, parsley, salt and pepper in large bowl.
Pour cream sauce over and mix well. Pour into buttered casserole dish
and top with buttered breadcrumbs and almonds. Bake 1 hour at 350°. This
serves 12. I make this and put into smaller casseroles that will feed 4
people, 3 times. This also freezes well.

\*All chicken breasts can be used, if desired

**Quick Chicken and Rice**

> Betty Crocker

6 chicken breasts 1 cup white rice, uncooked

3 cups water 2 (10-3/4 oz.) cans cream of chicken soup

1 cup celery, cut up 1 tablespoon parsley, dried

Salt & pepper to taste

You can use up to 6 chicken breasts, or you can use just a few chicken
tenders, whatever you want to eat. Put chicken in 9x13" dish; mix soup
and water in large bowl. Add rice, celery, parsley, salt & pepper. Pour
over chicken; cover tightly with foil. Bake at 325° for 2 hours.

**Chicken and Rice**

> Martha Aman

2 cups chicken, cooked and chopped 4 hard-boiled eggs, mashed

2 cups cooked rice, cooked in broth 1 ½ cups celery, chopped

1 small onion, chopped 1 cup mayonnaise

2 cans cream of mushroom soup 3 oz. slivered almonds

½ teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons lemon juice

1 cup bread crumbs, dried in oven Butter

Mix all ingredients except bread crumbs and butter and pour into greased
one 9x13" or two 6x1" casserole dish(es). Soak crumbs in butter and pour
over top of casserole. Bake 40-45 minutes at 350° or until it bubbles.

**Easy Chicken and Rice Bake**

> Judy Chipman

1 can (14 ½ oz.) mixed vegetables, drained 1 (10 ¾ oz.) can cream of
mushroom soup

or 1 can green beans ¾ cup uncooked white rice

4 skinless, boneless chicken breasts 1 cup water

Mix vegetables, soup and rice with water and place in 2-qt. butter
shallow baking dish. Place chicken breasts on vegetable mixture.
Sprinkle with paprika and pepper, if desired. Cover with foil and bake
at 400° for 40-45 minutes or until chicken and rice are done. Note: You
may check after 30 minutes of baking to make, not to overcook chicken.

**Easy Chicken Casserole**

> Jackie Singletary

1 cut-up chicken or 4 chicken breasts 1 can Golden Mushroom Soup

1 cup carrots cut in pieces ½ cup onions, in rings

1/8 teaspoon nutmeg

Mix above ingredients. Cook covered 1 ½ hours at 400°.

**Chicken Crunch**

> Loette Lee

8 skinless and boneless chicken breasts 1 can cream of chicken soup

1 can cream of celery soup 1 package bread stuffing (dry crumbs, no
seasoning)

1 stick butter, melted

Place chicken in buttered roasting dish. Mix the soups and spoon over
the chicken breasts. Sprinkle bread crumbs over the top. Drizzle melted
butter over the bread crumbs. Bake at 350° for 60-70 minutes.

**Chicken Salad Pies**

2 pie shells 4-6 chicken breasts, cooked and chopped

½ cup bell pepper, chopped ½ cup onion, chopped

½ cup celery, chopped ½ cup mayonnaise

1 can cream of chicken soup 8 oz. sour cream

1 small jar pimentos 1 package slivered almonds

Grated Cheddar cheese Crushed potato chips

Preheat oven to 350°. Bake pie shells for 5 minutes and set aside. (You
aren't trying to get them done at this time.) Sauté bell pepper, onion
and celery in butter until limp. Mix chicken, pimentos, mayonnaise,
soup, sour cream, almonds and the sautéed mixture and pour into pie
shells. Cover with grated cheese and potato chips. Bake pies 30 minutes
or until set.

**Chicken with a Flourish**

> Beth Dubina

6 cups chicken breasts, cooked and cut up 2 cans cream of mushroom soup

3 cups chicken broth 1 can mushrooms with juice

½ cup finely chopped onion 1 cup celery, chopped

½ cup mayonnaise Cayenne pepper, accent and salt

2 packages Pepperidge Farm Cornbread 1 ½ sticks butter, melted

Stuffing Slivered almonds

Mix 2 packages of cornbread stuffing with melted butter. Place 2/3 of
mixture in bottom of greased 9x13" casserole dish. Save remainder for
topping. Mix chicken, soup, broth, mushrooms, onion, celery, mayonnaise
and seasonings. Place chicken mixture over top of stuffing. Top with
remainder of crumbs. Sprinkle with slivered almonds. Bake at 325° for 30
minutes. Serves 15.

**Chicken Divan**

1 (10-oz.) package broccoli 4 chicken breasts, cooked & chopped

1 can cream of chicken soup ½ cup mayonnaise

½ teaspoon lemon juice ½ teaspoon curry powder

½ cup Cheddar cheese, grated ½ cup bread crumbs

2 tablespoons butter, melted

Layer broccoli in greased casserole dish. Place chicken over broccoli.
Mix soup, mayonnaise, lemon juice and curry powder. Spread over chicken.
Add bread crumbs and melted butter; sprinkle over top. Bake in 350° for
25 minutes.

**Chicken Saltinbacca**

> Olivet Willis

3 large chicken breasts, skinned, boned 6 thin slices boiled ham

& halved 3 slices mozzarella, halved

1 medium tomato, seeded & chopped ½ teaspoon dried sage

1/3 cup fine, dry bread crumbs 2 tablespoons parsley

4 tablespoons butter, melted 2 tablespoons grated Parmesan cheese

Place chicken, outer side up, on a cutting board. Place a piece of clear
plastic wrap over. Working from the center out, pound lightly with meat
mallet to 5x5". Remove wrap. Place a ham slice, then half slice cheese
on each cutlet. Top with some tomato and dash of sage. Tuck in sides;
roll up jelly-roll style, pressing to seal well. Combine bread crumbs,
parmesan and parsley. Dip chicken in butter, and then roll in crumbs.
Place in shallow baking pan. Bake in 350° oven for 40-45 minutes. Serves
6.

**Chicken Royale**

3 chicken breast halves ½ cup sour cream

1 tablespoon lemon juice 1 teaspoon Worcestershire sauce

1 teaspoon celery salt ½ teaspoon paprika

1 teaspoon salt 1/8 teaspoon pepper

1 ¼ cups fine soft bread crumbs ¼ cup melted butter

Remove skin from chicken. Combine remaining ingredients except bread
crumbs and butter. Coat chicken with sour cream mixture; cover and
refrigerate overnight. When ready to cook, coat each chicken breast
evenly with crumbs; place in a shallow baking pan. Spoon ½ the melted
butter over chicken. Bake in 350° oven 45 minutes; drizzle with
remaining butter. Bake 15 minutes longer. Serves 3.

**King's Ranch Chicken Casserole #1**

1 package tortillas (about 10) 1 large fryer or hen

1 large chopped onion 1 chopped bell pepper

½ lb. grated sharp Cheddar cheese 1 can Rotel tomatoes, drained

1 teaspoon chili powder Garlic salt

1 can cream of chicken soup 1 can cream of mushroom soup

Cook chicken in water until tender. Soak tortillas in boiling chicken
broth and drain. Cover the bottom of 9x13" casserole dish with
tortillas. Add boned chicken. Then layer onion, pepper, cheese, chili
powder and garlic salt. Combine soups and tomatoes; add this mixture on
top of casserole. Bake at 375° for 30 minutes. Serves 8.

**King's Ranch Chicken Casserole #2**

½ cup chicken broth 1 ½ cups chicken

2 cans cream of chicken soup 1 cup sour cream

1 can chopped green chilies 1 can Rotel tomatoes and chilies

½ cup chopped onion, scallion or white 1 package tortillas, cut in
pieces

1 cup shredded Cheddar cheese

Combine all ingredients except cheese. Put into 9x13" casserole dish.
Cover with cheese. Refrigerate for several hours. Bake at 350° for 45
minutes.

**Herbed Cranberry Chicken**

6 boneless skinless chicken breast halves 1 tablespoon Mrs. Dash
Original Seasoning Blend

2 tablespoons olive oil 2/3 cup green onions

½ cup dried cranberries ½ cup chicken broth

1/3 cup cranberry juice 4 ½ teaspoons maple syrup

1 tablespoon Balsamic vinegar 1/3 cup toasted pecans

Rub chicken with seasoning blend. Heat 1 tablespoon olive oil in a large
nonstick skillet over medium heat. Add chicken and cook for 4-5 minutes
on each side or until a meat thermometer reaches 170°. Remove and keep
warm. Heat the remaining olive oil in the same skillet, then add and
sauté onions. Stir in the cranberries, broth, cranberry juice, syrup and
vinegar; bring to a boil. Reduce heat; cook and stir for 2 minutes.
Return chicken to the pan; cook for 1 minute or until heated through.
Sprinkle with pecans.

**Turkey Casserole**

> Sharon Hutson

3 cups diced, cooked turkey 3 tablespoons butter

3 tablespoons flour 1 cup sour cream

1 can cream of mushroom soup 1 teaspoon salt

¾ cup milk 2 cups cooked brown rice

½ cup chopped onion ½ cup chopped celery

½ cup slivered almonds

Melt butter, add flour and blend; add sour cream, soup, salt and milk.
Cook over low heat until it thickens; stir in rice, onion, celery and
turkey. Place in large greased casserole. Top with almonds. Bake at 350°
for 45 minutes.

**Curried Turkey Almondine**

> Beebe Phillips

6 cups turkey, chopped 2 cans drained mushrooms

1 stick butter 10 tablespoons flour

1 ½ teaspoon curry powder (or more) 5 cups turkey broth

1 cup bleached seedless raisins Toasted almonds

Melt butter in pan; blend in flour and curry powder. Add broth and
raisins; stir constantly until sauce is thick and boiling. Add turkey.
Add toasted almonds on top.

**Impossible Turkey Pie**

1 cups cut-up cooked turkey or chicken 1 jar (4 ½ oz.) sliced mushrooms,
drained

½ cup sliced green onions ½ teaspoon salt

1 cup shredded natural Swiss cheese (4-oz.) 1 ½ cups milk

¾ cup Bisquick baking mix 3 eggs

Heat oven to 400°. Lightly grease 10" pie plate. Sprinkle turkey,
mushrooms, onions, salt and cheese in pie plate. Beat remaining
ingredients until smooth, 15 seconds in blender or 1 minute with hand
beater. Pour into pie plate. Bake until golden brown or knife inserted
halfway between center and edge comes clean, 30-35 minutes. Let stand 5
minutes before cutting.

**Easy Chicken and Cheese Enchiladas**

1 can cream of chicken soup ½ cup sour cream

1 cup Pace Picante Sauce 2 teaspoons chili powder

2 cups chopped cooked chicken ½ cup shredded Monterey Jack cheese

6 flour tortillas (6"), warmed 1 small tomato, chopped

1 green onion, sliced

Stir sour, sour cream, picante sauce and chili powder in a medium bowl.
Stir 1 cup picante sauce mixture, chicken and cheese in a large bowl.
Divide the chicken mixture among the tortillas. Roll up the tortillas
and place the seam down in an 11x8" shallow baking dish. Pour remaining
picante sauce mixture over the filled tortillas. Cover the baking dish.
Bake at 350° for 40 minutes or until the enchiladas are hot and
bubbling. Top with tomato and onion (optional).

**Creamy Chicken Enchiladas**

1 ½ cups shredded cheese ¼ cup chopped cilantro

12 (6 inch) flour tortillas 2 ½ cups chopped cooked chicken

1 ½ cups salsa 1 can (10 ¾ oz.) cream of chicken soup

1 cup sour cream, divided

Preheat oven to 350°. Line a large baking pan with Reynolds Wrap 18"
wide Heavy Duty Aluminum Foil. Grease or spray foil to prevent sticking.
Combine chicken and soup and half of sour cream, cheese and cilantro.
Spool ¼ cup chicken mixture down center of each tortilla; roll up. Place
seam-sides down, in foil-lined pan. Top with salsa and remaining cheese.
Cover with foil.

Bake 15 minutes; remove foil. Continue baking 10 minutes or until cheese
is melted. Top with cilantro and sour cream.

**Chicken Taco and Rice**

1 lb. skinned, boned chicken breasts, 2 tablespoons oil

cut into strips 1 can (13 ¾ oz.) chicken broth

1 can tomato sauce 1 package Taco Seasoning Mix

1 can (12-oz.) corn, drained 1 medium red or green pepper, or both,

½ cup shredded cheddar cheese cut into small strips

Tortilla chips

Sauté chicken in oil until opaque, about 2 minutes. Add chicken broth,
tomato sauce and taco seasoning mix. Bring to a boil; then simmer,
covered 5 minutes, stirring occasionally. Add corn and pepper. Bring to
a full boil. Stir in rice. Cover; remove from heat. Let stand 5 minutes.
Fluff with fork. Serve with cheese and tortilla chips. Makes 4 servings.

**Mini Chili Chicken Cups**

1 ½ lbs. boneless, skinless chicken breasts 1 cup ranch dressing or sour
cream

¼ teaspoon salt ¼ teaspoon pepper

2 cups shredded Monterey Jack cheese 4 teaspoons chili powder

2 teaspoons paprika 1 package (24 count) wonton wrappers

1 cup finely chopped red or green bell

peppers, or combination

Place chicken in single layer in a saucepan; add water to cover. Bring
to boil; reduce heat to simmer and poach chicken about 20 minutes.
Drain; cool slightly; chop or shred with a fork. With dressing and
season with salt and pepper; set aside. Combine cheese with chili powder
and paprika; set aside. Pre-heat oven to 350°. Spray muffin pans with
cooking spray. Place one wonton wrapper in each muffin; bake for 5
minutes, until lightly brown. Remove from oven and cool. Spoon a
generous tablespoon of chicken filling into each wonton cup; sprinkle
with cheese mixture and then bell pepper. Return to oven and bake until
heated and cheese is melted. Serve salsa, sour cream and guacamole
separately as toppings, if desired. Makes 24.

**Do Yesterday Green Chili Chicken**

1 can cream of mushroom soup 1 can cream of chicken soup

1 can chopped green chilies ½ onion, finely chopped

1 cup milk 1 cup sour cream

4-5 chicken breasts or 1 rotisserie ½ lb. cheddar cheese, grated

Chicken, skinned, boned and Crushed Fritos

Cut into chunks

Make sauce by combining soups, chilies, onion, milk and sour cream. In a
large casserole, place 1 layer of Fritos, and top with 1 layer of
chicken pieces and half the sauce. Repeat. Refrigerate for 24 hours. One
and a half hours before dinner time, preheat the oven to 350°. Bake the
casserole uncovered for 1 and ½ hours until browned on top.

**Rotel Chicken Casserole**

> Florence Wilson

4 cups chicken breasts, boneless, ½ stick butter

2 bouillon cubes 1 cup chopped onion

1 cup chopped bell pepper 1 cup canned mushrooms, drained

1 can (15-oz.) LeSeur peas, drained 16 oz. Velveeta cheese

2 cans (10-oz.) Rotel tomatoes 1 ½ cups grated cheddar cheese

12 oz. vermicelli

Cook chicken in water with bouillon cubes; save the water. Cut chicken
in small pieces and save. Sauté onion, pepper and mushrooms in butter.
Cook vermicelli (broken in pieces- halves) in saved chicken broth and
drain. Cut Velveeta into small squares and add to hot vegetables and hot
vermicelli. Stir until cheese is melted. Add tomatoes and stir. Add peas
and mix. Put in large casserole dish sprayed with Pam. Sprinkle cheddar
cheese on top. Bake at 350° for 30-40 minutes. Serves 12+. This freezes
well before or after cooking.

**Chicken and Corn Empanadas**

2 tablespoons vegetable oil 1 cup diced sweet onions

1 diced red bell pepper 1 teaspoon hot red pepper flakes, optional

1 ½ cups frozen corn kernels 2 teaspoons oregano

3 cups (1 lb.) diced cooked chicken, 6 oz. shredded Monterey Jack cheese

(You can use rotisserie-roasted chicken) Salt and black pepper to taste

2 (14-oz. each) packages crescent rolls 1 egg, lightly beaten with 1
tablespoon water

In large skillet, heat oil and lightly brown onions. Add pepper flakes,
corn and oregano and cook 5 minutes over moderate heat or until liquid
has mostly cooked away. Remove from heat; stir in chicken and cheese,
season to taste and chill.

Unroll crescent rolls into two perforated squares. Place one square over
second. Roll out with a little flour to form a single, large rectangle
sheet. Cut out four circles about 5" in diameter; repeat with remaining
package of rolls. Refrigerate circles on waxed paper until firm, about
30 minutes.

Spoon ¼ cup filling into center of each circle, leaving 1" border. Brush
edges with egg mixture. Fold over to seal, stretching dough slightly.
Press edges together while pushing out any air pockets; seal by crimping
with times of a fork. Brush top with egg was and prick with fork.

Arrange empanadas on buttered and floured baking pan. Refrigerate until
ready to bake, up to 2 days ahead of time. Preheat oven to 400°. Bake
25-30 minutes or until puffy and brown and filling is bubbling hot.

**Chicken Quesadillas**

1 lb. chicken breasts 1 packet fajita seasoning

1 tablespoon vegetable oil 1 green pepper, diced

1 red pepper, diced 1 onion, diced

10 large tortillas 8 oz. shredded cheddar cheese

8 oz. shredded Monterey Jack cheese 16 oz. sour cream

Pace Salsa

Cut chicken breast into small pieces and combine with fajita seasoning.
Heat oil in large skillet over medium heat. Add chicken and cook until
done. Stir in peppers and onion. Cook until vegetables are tender. Layer
half of each tortilla with chicken mixture and cheeses. Fold each
tortilla in half and press lightly. Coat a warm skillet with cooking
spray. Lightly brown each quesadilla until cheese is melted. Cut each
quesadilla into 4 wedges

**Chicken Fajitas**

4 (3.oz.) skinned boneless chicken breasts 1/3 cup lemon juice from
concentrate

2 tablespoons vegetable oil 2 cloves garlic, finely chopped

2 teaspoons chicken instant bouillon 4 (6") flour tortillas, warmed

4 slices American cheese, cut in strips

In plastic bag, combine lemon juice, oil, garlic and bouillon; add
chicken. Marinate in refrigerator 4 hours or overnight. Remove chicken
from marinade; grill or broil as desired, basting frequently with
marinade. Slice chicken into strips; place on tortillas. Top with cheese
and one or more of the garnishes: chopped tomatoes, shredded lettuce,
sliced green onions. Serve immediately. Refrigerate leftovers.

**Sopa De Tortilla**

> Olivet Willis

2 cups cooked chopped chicken 12 corn tortillas

1 can cream of mushroom soup 1 can cream of chicken soup

1 cup milk 1 medium onion, finely chopped

1 small can green chili salsa (4-oz.) or 1 lb. grated cheddar cheese

Chopped green chili peppers

Cut tortillas in strips. Mix soups, milk, onion and chili together.
Butter shallow baking dish. Put layer of tortillas on bottom, then layer
of chicken, then soup mixture, then cheese. Make 3 layers of each.
Refrigerate 24 hours; then bake uncovered in 300° for 1 ½ hours.

**Broiled Chicken with Corn-Pineapple Salsa**

6 medium skinless, boneless chicken breasts 1 can (15.25-oz.) Whole
Kernel Golden Sweet

1 can (8-oz.) Crushed Pineapple, drained Corn, drained

½ cup chopped fresh cilantro 1 jalapeno pepper, seeded and finely
chopped,

optional

Rinse chicken; pat dry. Season with pepper. Place on unheated rack of
broiler pan. Broil 4" from heat 10-12 minutes or until no pink remains;
turn once.

Meanwhile, stir together corn, pineapple, sweet pepper, cilantro and
jalapeno in medium bowl. Serve chicken. Garnish with additional cilantro
and jalapeno peppers, if desired.

**Parmesan Crusted Chicken**

½ cup Hellman's Mayonnaise ¼ cup Parmesan Cheese

4 boneless, skinless chicken breast halves 4 teaspoons Italian-seasoned
dry bread crumbs

Preheat oven to 425°. Combine mayonnaise with cheese in medium bowl.
Arrange chicken breasts on baking sheet. Evenly top with mayonnaise
mixture; then sprinkle with bread crumbs. Bake 20 minutes or until
chicken is thoroughly cooked.

**Chicken and Dumplings**

4 chicken breasts, with skin and bones\* 8-10 flour tortillas

1 can cream of chicken soup Salt & pepper to taste

Boil chicken breasts in salted water until done. Remove meat from bones;
discard bones and skin. Stack several tortillas at a time and cut in
strips, about size of dominoes. Bring chicken broth to boil; if not
enough broth for all the tortillas, add chicken bouillon to make rich
broth. Add tortilla pieces one at a time into boiling water. When
tortillas are tender, add soup and stir well. Add black pepper to taste.

\*I use the chicken breast with skin because it makes a richer broth.
