Applesauce Spice Bars

1 cup applesauce 2 cups Bisquik baking mix

2/3 cup packed brown sugar 1 teaspoon pumpkin pie spice

¼ cup vegetable oil ½ cup chopped nuts (pecans)

2eggs Browned Butter Glaze (below)

Heat oven to 350º. Grease oblong pan 13x9x2 inches. Beat applesauce,
brown sugar, oil and eggs in large mixer bowl on medium speed, scraping
bowl occasionally, 1 minute. Stir in baking mix, pumpkin pie spice and
nuts. Spread in pan. Bake until wooden pick inserted in center comes out
clean, about 25 minutes; cool. Spread with *Browned Butter Glaze*. Cut
into bars, about 3x1 inch, 3 dozen bars.

*Browned Butter Glaze:*

¼ cup butter 1teaspoon vanilla

2 cups powdered sugar 1 to 2 tablespoons hot water

Heat butter over low heat until golden brown; remove from heat. Beat in
powdered sugar and vanilla. Stir in water, 1 teaspoon at a time, until
smooth and of desired consistency.

Pumpkin Bars

2 cups sugar 2 cups Bisquick baking mix

½ cup vegetable 2 teaspoons ground cinnamon

1 can (16-oz.) pumpkin ½ cup raisins

4 eggs, beaten Cream Cheese Frosting (below)

Heat oven to350º. Grease jelly roll pan, 15 ½ x 10 ½ x 1 inch. Beat
sugar, oil, pumpkin and eggs in large mixer bowl on medium speed,
scraping bowl occasionally, 1 minute. Stir in baking mix, cinnamon and
raisins. Pour into pan. Bake until wooden pick inserted in center comes
out clean, 25 to 30 minutes; cool. Frost with Cream Cheese Frosting. Cut
into bars, about 3x1 inch. Refrigerate any remaining bars. 50 bars.

Cream Cheese Frosting:

1 package (3 ounces) cream cheese, softened 1 tablespoon milk

1/3 cup butter, softened 1 teaspoon vanilla

2 cups powdered sugar

Beat cream cheese, butter, milk and vanilla until creamy. Stir in
powdered sugar until smooth.

Pineapple Bars

****Alice Donley

Crust:

2 ½ cups sifted flour ½ teaspoon salt

1 cup butter ½ cup milk

Combine as for pastry, mixing flour, salt and butter until fine --
sprinkle with milk; blend until dough can be made into soft ball. Divide
in half; roll each to fit 13x9" cake pan; place half in pan. Save second
rolled pastry layer for top.

Filling:

1 No. 2 can (2 ½ cups) crushed pineapple with juice

2 Tablespoons cornstarch

1egg

Combine ingredients in saucepan and cook until thick; cool and pour over
the bottom pastry. Cover with remaining crust. Prick top with fork. Bake
in moderate oven 350º until golden brown, 35-40 minutes. Cool. Frost
with Cream Cheese Frosting.

Cream Cheese Frosting:

1 package (3-oz.) cream cheese, softened

2 cups powdered sugar

Beat cream cheese until smooth. Add sugar gradually until frosting is
spreading consistence. Frost cool bars.

Saucepan Raisin Spice Bars

1 stick butter ½ teaspoon soda

½ cup raisins ½ teaspoon cinnamon

2/3 cup sugar ½ teaspoon nutmeg

1 cup sifted flour ¼ teaspoon ground cloves

1 egg

Simmer raisins in ½ cup water until raisins are soft and plump. Drain
off water, saving 2 tablespoons to use in recipe. Melt butter in
saucepan. Remove from heat. Add sugar and the 2 tablespoons of water.
Blend. Stir in flour, soda and spices. Add egg and beat well. Add
raisins. Pour into greased 9" square pan. Bake 350º for 30 minutes. Do
not over bake. Cool in pan. Cut into bars.

Fruit and Cereal Bars

1/3 cup firmly packed brown sugar ½ cup Baker\'s Angel Flake Coconut

½ cup Log Cabin syrup or light corn syrup ½ cup chopped nuts, pecans or
walnuts

¼ cup butter ¼ cup flour

5 cups Raisin Bran, slightly crushed 1 cup semi-sweet chocolate chips

1 egg, well beaten

Combine sugar, syrup and butter in saucepan; heat and stir until sugar
is dissolved. Combine cereal, coconut and nuts in a bowl. Add flour and
chips. Pour syrup over cereal mixture; then stir in egg and mix well to
coat evenly. Spread in greased 13x9" pan, pressing firmly. Bake at 400º
for 15 to 20 minutes until golden brown. Cool 10 minutes; then cut into
bars. Makes 2 dozen bars.

Brownie Mix

4 cups all-purpose flour 1 tablespoon plus 1 teaspoon baking powder

1 tablespoon salt 8 cups sugar

2 ½ cups cocoa 2 cups shortening

Combine flour, baking powder, salt, sugar and cocoa; stir well. Cut in
shortening with pastry blender until mixture resembles coarse meal.
Place in an airtight container; store in a cool, dry place or in
refrigerator for up to 6 weeks. Yields: 16 cups.

\*This mix is like the brownie mix we buy in store. When ready to use it
add ingredients to make brownies. One example is as follows:

*Quick and Easy Brownies*:

3 cups Brownie Mix 3 eggs, beaten

1 ½ teaspoon vanilla ½ cup chopped pecans

Combine all ingredients, stirring until well mixed. Spoon into a greased
and floured 8" square pan. Bake at 350° for 35-40 minutes (or less for
chewy brownie.) Cut into squares. Yield: 16 brownies.

Weight Watchers Brownies

3 cups All-Bran 2 ½ cups water

1 box Betty Crocker Low-Fat Sweet Rewards 1 ½ teaspoon baking powder

Brownie Mix

Mix All-Bran with water. Soak 5 minutes. Add BC Brownie mix and baking
powder. Pour into 24 muffin tins. Bake at 350° for 22-25 minutes. Better
to let sit day or two. Also freezes well.

One muffin = 1 point.

Chocolate-Peanut Butter Brownie Blast

1 (18-4 oz.) box Betty Crocker Premium ¾ cup chopped peanut butter
cups\*

Brownie Mix -- Original Supreme 1 (16-oz.) container Betty Crocker
Whipped

4 rectangles Honey Maid Graham Crackers, Vanilla Frosting

Crumbled

Heat oven to 350°. Line a 9x9x2" pan with foil to extend over pan edges.
Prepare brownie mix according to package directions. Stir in ½ cup
chopped peanut butter cups. Spread batter in pan and bake according to
package directions. Cool. Spread frosting, top with graham crackers and
remaining peanut butter cups. Use foil to lift brownies from pan.

\*To make this dessert nut-free, swap the peanut butter cups for chopped
malted milk balls.

Peanut Butter Cup Sprinkled Brownies

1 stick butter 1 ¼ cups sugar, divided

¾ cup Hershey's cocoa 4 eggs, beaten

2 teaspoons, vanilla ¾ cup all-purpose flour

½ teaspoon salt ¼ teaspoon baking soda

1 1/3 cups (8-oz. package) Reese's Minis 1 cup Reese's Creamy peanut
butter

Peanut Butter Cups, divided

Heat oven to 350°. Grease 13x9x2" baking pan. Melt butter in medium
saucepan over low heat. Add 2 cups sugar and cocoa; stir to blend.
Remove from heat. Stir in eggs and vanilla. Stir together flour, salt
and baking soda; stir into chocolate mixture. Stir in 2/3 cup mini
peanut butter cups; spread mixture in prepared pan. Combine peanut
butter and remaining ¼ cup sugar in microwave-safe bowl. Microwave at
high 1 minute or until fluid. Drop by tablespoons onto chocolate batter.
Swirl with metal spatula or knife for marbled effect. Bake 25-30 minutes
or until brownie starts to pull from edges of pan and is set. Cool 45
minutes; sprinkle remaining 2/3 cup peanut butter cups over surface,
pressing in slightly. Cool completely in pan on wire rack. Cut into
squares or triangles. Makes about 36 brownies.

Deep Dish Brownies

¾ cup butter, melted 1 ½ cups sugar

1 ½ teaspoons vanilla 3 eggs

¾ cup all-purpose flour ½ cup Hershey\'s cocoa

½ teaspoon baking powder ½ teaspoon salt

1 cup Reese\'s Peanut Butter Chips or Hershey\'s Semi-sweet Chocolate
Chips

Heat oven to 350º. Grease 8" square pan. In medium bowl blend melted
butter, sugar and vanilla. Add eggs; beat well with spoon. Combine
flour, cocoa, baking powder and salt; gradually add to egg mixture,
beating until well blended. Stir in chips. Spread into prepared pan.
Bake 40-45 minutes or until brownies begin to pull away from sides of
pan. Cool completely; cut into squares. Makes 16 brownies.

Brownies

Anne Holston

2 cup sugar ½ cup milk

1 stick butter 1 block unsweetened chocolate

1 teaspoon vanilla

Add all ingredients except vanilla in saucepan. Cook over medium heat
and stir until boiling. Take off heat. Add vanilla; beat until color
changes about 10-15 minutes.

Brownies

1 cup flour ¾ cup cocoa

½ teaspoon baking powder 4 eggs

2 cups sugar 1 ½ cups melted butter

1 teaspoon vanilla 1 cup nuts

Stir flour, cocoa and baking powder onto wax paper. Beat eggs in mixer
bowl about 3 minutes until thick. Beat in sugar gradually, about 1
minute more. Mix in melted butter, vanilla and dry ingredients at low
speed. Stir in nuts. Pour into a greased and floured 13x9ox2" pan.
Bake30-35 minutes at 350º. Cool. If desired, frost with chocolate
frosting and sift powdered sugar on top.

**Glorified Brownies**

Louise Windham

2 beaten eggs 1 cup chopped pecans

1 cup sugar ¼ teaspoon salt

½ cup butter, melted ¾ cup flour

¼ cup cocoa 24 large marshmallows

Beat eggs until light. Gradually add sugar and continue beating until
smooth. Add butter and cocoa and mix well. Stir in pecans, salt and
flour and mix well. Place in a greased and floured shallow baking pan.
Bake in 350º oven about 20 minutes. Remove from over (may not seem done)
and place marshmallows on top. Put back in oven until marshmallows are
soft and puffy. Cover with the following icing:

*Icing**:***

4 tablespoons milk ¼ cup cocoa

2 tablespoons butter 1 teaspoon vanilla

2 cups confectioners' sugar 1/8 teaspoon salt

Heat until scalding milk and butter. Sift sugar, cocoa and salt; beat
into butter and milk mixture. Add vanilla and beat smooth. Spread on top
of marshmallows (may have to drizzle to keep marshmallows in place.

This was one of Eze's favorite desserts to make. Everybody loved these.
Her bridge club and neighbors always asked for these when they needed a
dessert.

Brownies with Butterscotch Drizzle

(Yes, You Can Eat Brownies -- only 179 Calories)

Nonstick cooking spray

4 tablespoons (½ stick) butter 2 ounces unsweetened chocolate, chopped

¼ cup low-fat sour cream ½ cup granulated sugar

½ cup light brown sugar 2 large eggs

1 tablespoon vanilla ½ cup whole-wheat flour

¼ teaspoon salt ½ cup bittersweet chocolate chunks or chips

½ cup butterscotch chips 2 teaspoons 1% low-fat milk

Preheat oven to 325º. Lightly coat an 8" baking pan with cooking spray.

Melt butter with chocolate in a medium saucepan over low heat. Remove
pan from heat, and stir in sour cream, sugars, eggs and vanilla until
well-combined. Stir in flour, salt and chocolate chips. Pour batter into
prepared pan; bake in middle of oven until a toothpick comes out clean
(about 35 minutes). Cool brownies in a pan; cut into 16 squares. Melt
butterscotch chips in a small pan over low heat, stirring (about 4
minutes). Add milk, and whisk until smooth. Pour butterscotch into a
zip-top bag; snip end off of the bottom corners. Stack brownies (2-4 in
each stack); drizzle each stack with butterscotch.

Serving size: 1 brownie: Calories 179; fat 9g (sat 6g, mono 2g, poly
0g); cholesterol 35mg; protein 2g; carbohydrate 24g; sugars 19g; fiber
2g; iron 1mg; sodium 60mg; calcium 25mg)

Irresistible Low-Fat Chocolate Brownies

Vegetable cooking spray ¾ cup semi-sweet chocolate chips

1 (14-oz.) can Eagle Brand Low Fat 4 egg whites

Sweetened Condensed Milk ¼ cup sifted flour

1/3 cup unsweetened cocoa 1 teaspoon baking powder

1 teaspoon vanilla

Preheat oven to350º. Spray 13x9" baking pan with cooking spray. In a
2-quart glass measure cup with handle, combine Eagle Brand milk, cocoa
and chips. Cook in microwave oven on 100% power for 2 minutes or until
chips melt, stirring after each minute. Stir in remaining ingredients.
Turn into prepared pan. Bake 20 minutes or until center is set. Cool.
Store tightly at room temperature.

Serving Size: 1 brownie: 120 calories; 3g fat; 5mg cholesterol; 60mg
sodium; 20g carbohydrate; 3g protein.

Hershey\'s Rocky Road Brownies

1 cup Hershey\'s semi-sweet chocolate chips 1 teaspoon vanilla

1 ¼ cups miniature marshmallows 2 eggs

½ cup chopped nuts ½ cup all-purpose flour

½ cup butter 1/3 cup Hershey\'s cocoa

1 cup sugar ½ teaspoon baking powder

½ teaspoon salt

Heat oven to 350º. Grease 9" square baking pan.

Stir together chocolate chips, marshmallows and nuts; set aside. Place
butter in large microwave-safe bowl. Microwave at High (100%) 1 to 1 ½
minutes or until melted. Add sugar, vanilla and eggs; beat with spoon
until well-blended. Add flour, cocoa, baking powder and salt; stir until
well-blended. Spread batter into prepared pan.

Bake 22 minutes. Sprinkle chocolate chip mixture over top. Continue
baking 5 minutes or until marshmallows have softened and puffed
slightly. Cool completely in pan on wire rack. Using wet knife, cut into
squares. Make about 20 brownies.

Nestle Double Chocolate Brownies

¾ cup unsifted flour ¼ teaspoon baking soda

¼ teaspoon salt 1/3 cup butter

¾ cup sugar 2 tablespoons water

1 (12-oz.) package (2 cups) Nestle Toll House 1 teaspoon vanilla

Morsels, divided 2 eggs

½ cup chopped nuts

Preheat oven to 325º. In a small bowl, combine flour, baking soda and
salt; set aside. In a small sauce pan, combine butter, sugar and water.
Bring just to a boil; then remove from heat. Add 6 ounces (1 cup) Nestle
Toll House Morsels and vanilla. Transfer to a large bowl; add eggs, one
at a time, beating well after each addition. Gradually blend in flour
mixture. Stir in a remaining 1 cup Nestle Toll House Morsels and the
nuts. Spread into greased 9" square baking pan. Bake 30-35 minutes. Cool
completely. Cut into 2 ¼"squares. Makes 16 2 ¼" squares. ****

No-Bake Fudge Brownies

1 (12-oz.) package (2 cups) Nestle Toll House 1 (14-oz.) can sweetened
condensed milk

Semi-sweet Chocolate Morsels 1 cup chopped nuts, divided

1 (8 ½ oz.) package chocolate wafers,

finely crushed

Melt over hot (not boiling) water, semi-sweet chocolate morsels; stir
until smooth Add sweetened condensed milk, chocolate wafer crumbs and ½
nuts; stir until well blended. Press into foil-lined 8" square pan.
Press remaining ½ cup nuts onto top of brownies. Let stand at room
temperature until firm. Cut into 2" squares. Makes 16 (2") brownies.

Brownies

Virginia Taylor

½ cup shortening 2 (1 oz.) chocolate squares

2 eggs 1 cup sugar

¾ cup flour ½ teaspoon salt

½ teaspoon baking powder 1 cup chopped nuts

1 teaspoon vanilla

Melt shortening and chocolate squares over low heat. Set aside. Beat
eggs until light. Add sugar and beat; add chocolate mixture and vanilla.
Add flour, salt and baking powder. Add nuts. Bake at 350º for 30-35
minutes.

Brownies

Debbie Schmidt

2 sticks butter ½ cup cocoa

2 cups sugar 1 ½ cup flour

4 eggs, beaten 1 teaspoon vanilla

Icing

Melt butter and cocoa together. Add sugar and beaten eggs; blend well.
Add flour and vanilla. Pour into metal greased and floured 8" square
pan. Bake at 250º for 1 hour. Spread icing on baked brownies while hot.

*Icing*:

1 stick butter, softened 1 box confectioner\'s sugar, sifted

1teaspoon vanilla Milk and cocoa

Combine butter, sugar and vanilla. Add enough milk and cocoa for proper
consistency and color.

Double Chocolate Brownies

6 tablespoons butter, softened ½ cup unsweetened applesauce

2 eggs 1 teaspoon vanilla

¾ cup all-purpose flour 24 packets sugar substitute

½ cup semi-sweet chocolate chips 6 tablespoons unsweetened cocoa

1 teaspoon baking powder ¼ teaspoon salt

Beat butter, applesauce, eggs and vanilla until blended. Stir in
combined flour, sugar substitute, chocolate chips, cocoa, baking powder
and salt until blended. Spread batter in sprayed in 8" square baking
pan. Bake in a preheated 350º oven 18-20 minutes or until top springs
back when gently touched. Cool completely on wire rack. Cut into
squares. Store in airtight containers at room temperature.

(Applesauce replaces part of the fat, sugar substitute all the sugar;
plus you get double the chocolate flavor with both cocoa and chocolate
chips.)

Fudge-Topped Brownies

1 cup butter, melted 2 cups sugar

1 cup unsifted flour 2/3 cup cocoa powder

½ teaspoon baking powder 2 eggs

½ cup milk 3 teaspoons vanilla

1 cup walnuts, chopped 1 (12-oz.) package semi-sweet chocolate chips

1 (14-oz.) can Eagle Brand Sweetened

Condensed Milk (not evaporated)

Preheat oven to 350º. In large bowl, combine butter, sugar, flour,
cocoa, baking powder, eggs, milk and 1 ½ teaspoons vanilla; beat well.
Stir in walnuts. Spread in greased 13x9" baking pan. Bake 40 minutes or
until brownies begin to pull away from sides of pan. Just before
brownies are done, in heavy saucepan, melt chips with sweetened
condensed milk and remaining vanilla. Immediately spread over hot
brownies. Cool. Chill. Cut into bars.

Most-Requested Brownie Recipe

1 teaspoon instant coffee powder or granules 2 teaspoons vanilla

½ cup all-purpose flour ½ cup unsweetened cocoa

¼ teaspoon baking powder ¼ teaspoon salt

1 cup sugar ¼ cup trans-fat-free vegetable oil spread

3 large egg whites

Preheat oven to 350º. Grease 8" square metal baking pan. In cup,
dissolve coffee in vanilla. On waxed paper, combine flour, cocoa, baking
powder and salt. In medium bowl, whisk sugar, vegetable oil spread, egg
whites and coffee mixture until well-blended; then blend in flour
mixture. Spread in prepared pan. Bake 22-24 minutes or until toothpick
inserted in brownies 2" from edge comes out almost clean. Cool in pan on
wire rack, about 2 hours. When cool, cut brownies into 4 strips, then
cut each strip crosswise into 4 squares. If brownies are difficult to
cut, dip knife in hot water; wipe dry and cut. Repeat dipping and drying
as necessary.

Calories: 95; fat: 3 g; sodium: 75mg; carbohydrate: 17g.

Caramel Brownie Treats

1 package (19.8 oz.) brownie mix 1 egg

1/3 cup evaporated milk 1/3 cup vegetable oil

2 quarts vanilla ice cream Golden Caramel Sauce, warm

Preheat oven to 350º. In a medium bowl, combine brownie mix, egg,
evaporated milk and oil. Stir with spoon until well-blended (about 50
strokes). Pour batter into a greased 13x9x2" baking pan. Bake 25
minutes; cool completely.

Spread vanilla ice cream over cooled brownies. Cover and freeze until
firm, 2-3 hours. Cut into 12 pieces. Serve with warm Golden Caramel
Sauce. Makes 12 servings.

*Golden Caramel Sauce*:

1 ½ cups packed brown sauce ¾ cup evaporated milk

3 tablespoons butter

In a medium saucepan, combine all ingredients. Bring to boil over medium
heat; stir constantly. Boil 5 minutes; remove from heat. Serve warm over
Caramel Brownie Treats or your favorite ice cream. Makes about 1 ¼ cups.

Black and White Brownies

1 (19-21-oz.) package fudge brownie mix 1 (10-12-oz.) package white
baking pieces

1 cup semi-sweet chocolate pieces ½ cup pecan pieces

¼ cup butter, melted 3 tablespoons hot water

2 cups powdered sugar, sifted ¼ cup unsweetened cocoa powder

1 teaspoon vanilla ¾ cup pieces

Preheat oven to 350º. Grease the bottom of a 13x9x2" baking pan; set
aside. Prepare brownie mix according to package directions. Stir in half
of the white baking pieces, all of the semi-sweet chocolate pieces and
the ½ cup pecans. Spread in batter in the prepared baking pan. Bake
about 30 minutes or until center is set. Sprinkle with the remaining
white baking pieces; bake for 1 minute more. Cool in pan on a wire rack.
Spread frosting on cool brownies.

Frosting:

In a small bowl combine melted butter and hot water; stir in powdered
sugar, cocoa powder and vanilla. Beat by hand until smooth. Spoon over
top of brownies. Sprinkle with pecans. Cool about 1 ½ hours or until
frosting is set. Cut into bars. Makes about 36 brownies.

Marbled Brownies

1 (3-oz.) cream cheese 3 tablespoons butter

¼ cup sugar 1 egg

1 tablespoon flour ½ teaspoon vanilla

1 package Duncan Hines Brownie Mix

(Regular Size)

Soften cream cheese and butter; beat together. Add sugar, egg, flour and
vanilla; beat until smooth and set aside. Prepare the "cake-like"
brownie batter as directed on the package.

Pour ½ the brownie batter into greased 8 or 9" square pan; pour all the
cream cheese mixture over the brownie layer. Spoon remaining brownie
batter in spots over the top. Swirl the 2 mixtures together with a
knife. Bake at 350° for 30-40 minutes. Cool and frost with frosting.

*Frosting*:

2 tablespoons butter 1 tablespoon cocoa

1 cup confectioners' sugar 1 tablespoon milk

1 teaspoon vanilla

Melt butter in medium saucepan. Stir in cocoa until dissolved. Add
confectioners' sugar, milk and vanilla. Stir until smooth. Add more milk
if needed. Frost brownies; let get firm.

Crispy Peanut Squares

1 cup sugar 1 cup light corn syrup

1 cup creamy peanut butter 1 teaspoon vanilla

6 cups crispy rice cereal squares 1 cup peanuts

Combine sugar, syrup and peanut butter in glass bowl. Microwave at high
3-4 minutes or until melted, stirring once. Stir in vanilla. Fold in
cereal and peanuts. Spread mixture onto lightly greased 13x9" pan. Cover
and chill 1 hour or until set; cut into small squares. Makes 4 dozen.

Honey Pecan Triangles

2 teaspoons plus ½ cup butter, soft or cut-up ½ cup brown sugar

1 egg yolk 1 ½ cup flour

Topping

Mix butter, sugar, egg yolk and flour. Press into greased 13x9" pan.
Bake at 350° for 15 minutes.

Make topping and pour into crust. Bake 30 more minutes at 350°. Cool
completely. Remove from pan. Cut into triangles

Topping:

1 cup brown sugar ½ cup butter

¼ cup honey ½ cup whipping cream

4 cups chopped pecans

In saucepan combine brown sugar, butter & honey. Boil 3 minutes,
stirring constantly. Pour into crust.

Peanut Butter Snow Balls

1 tablespoon butter 1 cup crunchy peanut butter

¾ cup powdered sugar 1 ½ cup Rice Krispies

1 cup powdered sugar 3 tablespoons milk

½ teaspoon vanilla Coconut

Mix butter, peanut butter and sugar. Add Rice Krispies. Shape into balls
and refrigerate for at least 30 minutes. In double boiler, mix 1 cup
powdered sugar, 3 tablespoons milk and ½ teaspoon vanilla. Let this
mixture get warm. Dip the balls in the glaze and roll in coconut.
Refrigerate.

Granola Bars with Almonds, Chocolate and Dried Cranberries

2 cups rolled oats ½ cup wheat germ

1 cup sliced almonds ½ cup semi-sweet or bittersweet chocolate chips

½ cup dried cranberries or cherries 1 can (14-oz.) sweetened condensed
milk

Adjust oven rack to lower-middle position and preheat oven to 325°.
Grease a 9"square baking pan with vegetable cooking spray. For bars'
easy removal, line pan bottom up the two sides with a 9x18" strip of
heavy-duty foil. Grease foil with vegetable cooking spray.

Mix all ingredients in a medium bowl. Turn into prepared pan and pat
down until firmly packed. Bake until golden brown, about 30 minutes.
Cool to room temperature and put pan in freezer. When bar is firm, use
foil handles to remove from pan. Remove foil and use a long, sharp knife
to cut bar into 16 1x4" bars. Can be stored in an airtight container up
to 1 week or frozen.

Gluten-free variation: Follow recipe above, but instead of wheat germ,
use ½ cup rolled oats that have been finely ground in a food processor.
Yields: 16 servings. 206 calories preserving.

Rolo Pretzel Delights

Mini Pretzel Twists Rolo Chewy Caramels in Milk Chocolate

Pecan Halves

Heat oven to 350°. Line cookie sheet with parchment paper or foil.
Remove wrappers from chocolates. Place one pretzel for each pretzel
treat desired on prepared sheet. Top each pretzel with one unwrapped
Rolo Chewy Caramel in Milk Chocolate. Bake 3-5 minutes or until caramel
piece begins to soften, but not melt. Remove from oven; top with either
pecan half or additional pretzel. Cool completely.

Brickle Bars

Shirley Cicero

Saltine crackers 1 cup brown sugar

1 stick butter Chocolate chips

Pecans

Layer a 9x 13 pan with saltine crackers.

In saucepan combine 1 cup brown sugar and 1 stick butter. Bring to boil
until mixture bubbles.

Pour evenly over crackers.

Bake in 350º oven for 5 minutes.

Pour bag of chocolate chips over hot crackers and spread.

Top with chopped nuts.

Freeze 30 minutes.

Cheesecake Bars

13 graham crackers, crumbled 1 package (6-oz.) butterscotch pieces

(makes about 1 ½ cups) 5 tablespoons butter

1 (8-oz.) package cream cheese ¼ cup sugar

2 eggs 2 tablespoons plain flour

1 tablespoon lemon juice

Melt butterscotch and butter, add graham cracker crumbs. Set aside ½ cup
for topping. Press into 8" square baking pan. Bake at 350º for 10
minutes. Put remaining ingredients in blender, beat until smooth. Pour
over hot baked crust. Sprinkle reserved crumbs over top. Bake 20-25
minutes.

Cream Cheese Bars

> Joann Perkins

> 

1 box Duncan Hines Deluxe #II Cake Mix 1 stick butter, softened

1 egg 2 eggs

8 oz. cream cheese, softened 1 box powdered sugar, less ¼ cup

Mix cake mix, butter and 1 egg until dough forms. Press into 9x13
greased pan. Beat 2 eggs, cream cheese and powdered sugar until smooth
and pour on top of cake mixture. Bake in 350° oven for 35 minutes. (Cake
will fall some when taken from oven.) Sprinkle ¼ cup powdered sugar on
top while hot. Cool before cutting into squares.

Mini-Cheesecakes

Jan Ingram (1979)

3 (8-oz.) packages cream cheese 1 cup sugar

1 ½ teaspoons vanilla 5 eggs

1 cup sour cream ¼ cup sugar

¼ teaspoon vanilla Jam or preserves (cherry)

Cream sugar and cream cheese. Add eggs one at a time; add vanilla. Pour
into cupcake liners (in muffin pan) ¾ full. Bake at 300° for 30 minutes.
Cool slightly. Leave in muffin pan to cool. Mix sour cream, sugar, and
vanilla. Dip about 1 tablespoon of mixture on top of cupcakes. Top with
preserves and bake 5 minutes at 300°. This makes a little more than 2
dozen. Refrigerate or freeze until needed.

Miniature Cheesecakes

> Penny Brightwell

½ cup Graham Cracker Crumbs 2 tablespoons butter, melted

1 (8-oz) package cream cheese, softened ¼ cup sugar

1 egg ½ teaspoon vanilla

1 (10-oz.) jar cherry preserves

Combine cracker crumbs and butter. Line miniature muffin tin with paper
liners. Spoon 1 teaspoon crumbs into each liner. Gently press into
bottom.

Beat cream cheese with electric mixer until light and fluffy. Gradually
add sugar and mix well. Add egg and vanilla, beating well. Spoon mixture
into liners. Bake at 350° for 10 minutes.

Place cherry preserves in small saucepan. Heat just until they melt.
Spoon 1 teaspoon over cheesecakes. Chill thoroughly makes 2 dozen

Chocolate Carmelita Bars

1 ¾ cups rolled oats (quick or regular), divided 1 ¾ cups all-purpose
flour

¾ cup firmly packed light brown sugar ¾ stick Crisco stick butter flavor
shortening

1 tablespoon water ½ teaspoon baking soda

¼ teaspoon salt 1 cup chopped pecans

1 cup (6-oz.) semi-sweet chocolate chips 1 cup Smucker\'s Sundae Syrup
Caramel Flavored Syrup

Heat oven to 350º. Coat a 13x9" baking pan with no-stick cooking spray.
Combine oats, 1 ½ cups flour, brown sugar, shortening, water, baking
soda and salt in large bowl. Beat with electric mixer on low speed until
well-blended. Reserve 1 cup oat mixture. Press remaining oat mixture
into bottom of prepared pan. Bake 10-12 minutes or until lightly
browned. Cool 10 minutes on wire rack. Sprinkle with pecans and
chocolate chips. Combine caramel flavored topping and remaining ¼ cup
flour in small bowl. Stir until smooth Drizzle over chocolate chips.
Sprinkle with reserved oat mixture. Bake an additional 18-22 minutes or
until golden brown. Cool completely in pan on wire rack. Cut into bars.
Makes 3 dozen.

Congo Squares

Carole Reed

1 ½ sticks butter ¼ cup solid shortening

1 box brown sugar 3 eggs

2 ½ cups flour 1 ½ teaspoon baking powder

¼ teaspoon salt 1 package semi-sweet chips and some

1 cup nuts (optional) butterscotch, if desired

Cream butter, shortening and brown sugar until fluffy; add eggs and mix
well. Combine flour, baking powder and salt. Add dry mixture to cream
mixture. Add chocolate chips (and butterscotch if desired) and nuts. Mix
well. Bake at 350º about 35 minutes. *Better if under baked.*

(If you want to use self-rising flour, omit salt and baking powder.)

Fruit and Cereal Bars

1/3 cup firmly packed brown sugar ½ cup Log Cabin syrup or light corn
syrup

¼ cup butter 5 cups Raisin Bran, slightly crushed

½ cup coconut ½ cup chopped nuts, pecans or walnuts

¼ cup flour 1 cup semi-sweet chocolate chips

1 egg, well-beaten

Combine sugar, syrup and butter in saucepan; heat and stir until sugar
is dissolved. Combine cereal, coconut and nuts in a bowl. Add flour and
chips. Pour syrup over cereal mixture; then stir in egg and mix well to
coat evenly. Spread in greased 13x9" pan, pressing firmly. Bake at 400º
for 15-20 minutes, until golden brown. Cool 10 minutes; then cut into
bars. Makes 2 dozen bars,

Fudgy Chocolate Cookie Bars

1 ¾ cups unsifted flour ¾ cup confectioner\'s sugar

¼ cup cocoa powder 1 cup cold butter

1 (12-oz.) package semi-sweet chocolate chips 1 (14-oz.) can Eagle Brand
Sweetened Condensed

1 teaspoon vanilla Chips

1 cup walnuts, chopped

Preheat oven to 350º. In bowl, combine flour, sugar and cocoa; cut in
margarine until crumbly. Press on bottom of 13x9" pan. Bake 15 minutes.
In saucepan, melt 1 cup chips with sweetened condensed milk and vanilla.
Pour over crust; top with walnuts and remaining chips; press down
firmly. Bake 20 minutes or until set. Cool. Cut into bars.

Gingerbread

2 cups Bisquick baking mix ¼ cup sugar

1 egg ¾ cup hot water

2/3 cup dark molasses 1/3 cup shortening

1 teaspoon cinnamon 1 teaspoon ginger

Heat oven to 325º. Grease and flour square pan, 9x9x2". Beat all
ingredients in large mixer bowl on low speed, scraping bowl constantly,
30 seconds. Beat on medium speed, scraping bowl occasionally, 3 minutes.
Pour into pan. Bake until wooden pick inserted in center comes out
clean, about 50 minutes. Serve with whipped cream or applesauce if
desired. 9 servings.

Gingerbread with Lemon Sauce

1 ¼ cups all-purpose flour ¾ cup sugar

1 teaspoon cinnamon 1 teaspoon baking soda

½ teaspoon baking powder ¼ teaspoon cloves

¼ teaspoon salt ¾ cup butter, softened

¾ cup water ½ cup molasses

Lemon Sauce

Preheat oven to 350º. Grease 9x9x2" pan. In large bowl combine flour,
sugar, ginger, cinnamon, baking soda, baking powder, cloves and salt.
Stir in butter, water and molasses until well-blended. Pour into pan.
Bake 40-50 minutes or until cake tester inserted in center comes out
clean. Cool slightly on wire rack. Serve warm with Lemon Sauce. Makes 9
to 12 servings.

*Lemon Sauce*:

1/3 cup sugar 2 tablespoons cornstarch

1-1/3 cups water 3 tablespoons butter

2 teaspoons grated lemon peel 2 tablespoons lemon juice

In a 2-quart saucepan, combine sugar and cornstarch. Gradually stir in
water until smooth. Stirring constantly, bring to boil over medium heat
and boil 1 minute. Remove from heat. Stir in butter, lemon peel and
lemon juice until well-blended. Pour into serving bowl; cover with waxed
paper or plastic wrap. Cool slightly. Serve warm on Gingerbread. Makes
about 2 cups.

Lemon Squares

Susan Fisher

1 stick butter 4 eggs

1 lemon cake mix 1 box confectioner\'s sugar, sifted

8 oz. Cream cheese 1 teaspoon lemon flavoring

Cream butter and 1 egg. Stir in cake mix. Put in greased 10x15" pan.
Combine cream cheese, 3 eggs, powdered sugar and flavoring. Pour over
1^st^ layer. Bake 350º for 40 minutes. Let cool. Sprinkle with powdered
sugar.

Magic Cookie Bars

½ cup butter 1 ½ cups graham cracker crumbs

1 (14-oz.) can Eagle Brand Sweetened 2 cups (12-oz.) semi-sweet
chocolate chips

Condensed Milk 1-1/3 cups flaked coconut

1 cup chopped nuts

Preheat oven to 350º (325º) for glass dish. In 13x9" baking pan, melt
butter in oven. Sprinkle graham cracker crumbs over butter, pour Eagle
Brand evenly over crumbs. Top with remaining ingredients; press down
firmly with fork. Bake 25 minutes or until lightly browned. Cool. Chill
if desired. Cut into bars or diamonds. Store at room temperature.

Salted Peanut Chews (Bars)

Jean Hill

1 box Pillsbury Plus Yellow Cake Mix 1/3 cup butter, softened

1 egg 3 cups miniature marshmallows

In large bowl combine all base ingredients, all above except
marshmallows, until crumbly. Press in 13x9" ungreased pan. Bake at 350º
12-18 minutes or until lightly browned. Remove from oven. Sprinkle with
marshmallows and return to oven for 5 minutes. Cool and prepare topping.

*Topping*:

2/3 cup light corn syrup ¼ cup butter

2 teaspoons vanilla 12-oz. Peanut butter chips

2 cups Rice Krispies 2 cups salted peanuts

In large pan heat syrup, oleo, vanilla and peanut butter chips until
melted and smooth. Stir constantly. Remove and stir in cereal and nuts.
Pour over base. Cool and cut.

Crispy Peanut Squares

Recipe from southernliving.com

1 cup sugar 1 cup light syrup

1 cup creamy peanut butter 1 teaspoon vanilla

6 cups crisp rice cereal squares 1 cup peanuts

Combine syrup, syrup and peanut butter in a glass microwave-safe bowl;
microwave at HIGH 3-4 minutes or until melted, stirring once. Stir in
vanilla. Fold in cereal and peanuts. Spread mixture into lightly greased
13x9" pan. Cover and chill 1 hour or until set; cut into small squares.
Makes 4 dozen.

Peanut Butter Squares

1 boxes powdered sugar 1-2/3 cups smooth peanut butter

3 cups graham cracker crumbs 3 sticks butter

Mix and spread in sprayed 9x13" dish. Spread topping over this layer.

*Topping*:

2 bags chocolate chips ½ block paraffin

2/3 stick butter

Melt ingredients in top of double boiler (boiling water in lower boiler)
and spread over the top layer.

Fun \'N Quick Peanut Butter Squares

¼ cup firmly packed brown sugar ½ cup corn syrup

½ cup peanut butter ¼ cup seedless raisins

¼ cup salted cocktail peanuts 3 ½ cups Kellogg\'s Honey & Nut Corn
Flakes

Cereal

Measure sugar, corn syrup and peanut butter into large saucepan. Cook
over medium heat, stirring constantly, until peanut butter melts and
mixture is well-blended. Remove from heat. Add raisins, peanuts and
cereal, mixing until well-coated. Press into 8x8x2" pan. Cool. Ct into
squares. 16 squares, 2x2".

Peanut Butter Corn Flake Balls

1 cup light corn syrup 1 cup sugar

1 cup crunchy peanut butter 6 cups corn flakes

1 cup salted peanuts

Combine syrup, sugar and peanut butter and heat well (don't boil). Stir
until smooth, then add corn flakes and nuts. Make into balls.

Praline Bars

****Gay Rue

1 cup butter 1 cup brown sugar

24 graham cracker squares 1 cup pecans, chopped

Blend butter and sugar. Heat to a boil and simmer 2 minutes. Add pecans.
Place graham crackers in 15x10x1" cookie sheet. Pour cooked mixture
evenly over crackers. Bake at 400º for 5 minutes (check after 3 minutes.
Cut each square in half along perforation while warm.

Praline Bars

Ruth Stinson

1 cup butter ¼ cup light brown sugar

24 graham cracker squares ¼ cup pecans, chopped

¼ cup coconut

Blend butter and sugar. Heat to a boil and simmer 5 minutes. Add pecans
and coconut. Place graham crackers in 15x10x1" cookie sheet. Pour cooked
mixture evenly over crackers. Bake at 400º for 10 minutes (check after 5
minutes. Cut each square in half along perforation while warm.

Praline Squares

24 graham crackers 1 stick butter

¼ cup nuts ¼ cup coconut

¼ cup light brown sugar

Preheat oven to 375°. Line shallow pan with graham crackers. Heat butter
and sugar 5 minutes over low heat. Add nuts and coconut. Mix well.
Spread over crackers and bake for 10 minutes.

Peppermint Bark Fudge Chewies

1 (20-oz.) package brownie mix 2 tablespoons all-purpose flour

1 stick unsalted butter, melted 2 large eggs

2 cups finely chopped peppermint bark, divided

Preheat oven 350º. Set aside 2 ungreased baking sheets. In a large
mixing bowl, combine brownie mix, flour, melted butter and eggs with a
wooden spoon until the ingredients are just combined, about 30 seconds.
Fold in 1 cup of the peppermint bark. Using a small scoop or spoon, drop
cookie dough by generous tablespoons or 1" balls about 2 inches apart on
the baking sheets. Press ½ teaspoon peppermint bark, onto the top of
each ball of batter.

Place the baking sheets one at a tie into the oven. Bake until the
cookies are firm around the edges but still soft in the center, 10-12
minutes. Remove from the oven and let the cookies cool on the sheets for
2-3 minutes. Using a metal spatula, transfer the cookies to wire racks.
Serve warm or cool for 20 minutes before storing Makes 4 dozen cookies.

Peppermint Bark Magic Brownies

1 stick unsalted butter 1 (20-oz.) package brownie mix

1 cup sweetened flaked coconut 2 cups finely chopped peppermint bark

1 heaping cup chopped pecans 1 (14-oz.) can sweetened condensed milk

Preheat oven to 350º. Lightly mist the bottom of 13x9" pan with
vegetable oil spray. Line the bottom and the long sides of the pan with
parchment paper, extending the ends 3-4" beyond the edges of the pan.
Place butter on the parchment paper and set the pan in the center of the
oven until the butter melts, 4-5 minutes. Remove the pan from the oven
to a wire rack. Sprinkle brownie mix evenly over the melted butter.
Scatter coconut evenly over the brownie mix. Layer peppermint bark
evenly over the coconut. Scatter pecans evenly on top. Drizzle sweetened
condensed milk evenly over the pecans.

Bake until the brownies bubble and the edges are lightly browned, 30-35
minutes. Remove from the oven and let cool in the pan on a wire rack for
30 minutes. Run a sharp knife around the edges of the pan to loosen the
brownies; then carefully lift the parchment paper and brownies onto a
cutting board. Slice the squares and serve. Makes about 3 dozen
brownies.

Saucepan Raisin Spice Bars

1 stick butter ½ cup raisins

2/3 cup sugar 1 cup sifted flour

½ teaspoon baking soda ½ teaspoon cinnamon

½ teaspoon nutmeg ¼ teaspoon cloves

1 egg

Simmer raisins in ½ cup water until soft and plump. Drain off water,
saving 2 tablespoons to use in recipe. Melt butter in saucepan. Remove
from heat. Add sugar and the 2 tablespoons of water. Blend. Stir in
flour, soda and spices. Add egg and beat well. Add raisins. Pour into
greased 9" square pan. Bake at 350º for 30 minutes. Do not over bake.
Cool in pan. Cut into bars.

Original Toll House Pan Cookies

2 ¼ cups unsifted flour 1 teaspoon baking soda

1 teaspoon salt 1 cup butter, softened

¾ cup sugar ¾ cup firmly packed brown sugar

1 teaspoon vanilla 2 eggs

1 12-oz. package (2 cups) Nestle Toll House 1 cup chopped nuts

Morsels

Preheat oven to 375°. In a small bowl, combine flour, baking soda and
salt; set aside. In a large bowl butter, sugar, brown sugar and vanilla;
beat until creamy. Beat in eggs. Gradually add flour mixture; mix well.
Stir in chocolate chips and nuts. Spread into greased 15x10x1" baking
pan. Bake at 375° for 20 minutes. Cool; cut into thirty-five 2" squares.

Chocolate Fudge Goblins

1 (12-oz.) package milk chocolate chips 1 cup semi-sweet chocolate chips

¼ cup butter 1 (14-oz.) can Eagle Brand Original, Low Fat or

1/8 teaspoon salt Fat-Free Sweetened Condensed Milk

2 cups pecan pieces 2 teaspoon vanilla

Pecan halves

In heavy saucepan, over medium heat, melt chips and butter with Eagle
Brand milk and salt. Remove from heat; stir in pecan pieces and vanilla.
Drop by teaspoonful onto wax paper-lined baking sheets. Top with pecan
halves. Chill. Store tightly covered.

To microwave: In 2-quart glass measure with handle, combine chips,
butter, Eagle Brand and salt. Cook on 100% for 3 minutes, stirring after
1 ½ minutes. Stir to melt chips; stir in pecan pieces and vanilla.
Proceed as above.

Chocolate Gooeys

1 (18.5-oz.) box German chocolate cake mix ¾ cup butter, melted

1 (12-oz.) can evaporated milk 1 cup chopped pecans

1 (8-oz.) bag chocolate bags 1 (9 ¼-oz.) bag caramel candy squares

Grease a 9x13" pan. Combine cake mix, butter, ½ cup evaporated milk and
pecans. Put half of mixture in bottom of pan. Bake at 350º for 6
minutes. Sprinkle chocolate chips over top of mixture. Use the rest of
the can of evaporated milk to melt caramel squares on stove top. Pour
over cake. Refrigerate. Spread the rest of cake mixture over top and
bake at 350º for 25 minutes. Let cool completely before serving.

Crispy Mallow Nests

3 tablespoons butter 3 cups miniature marshmallows

1 can (5-oz.) chow Mein noodles 2 tablespoons creamy peanut butter, if
desired

Candy-coated peanut chocolate candies

Melt together butter and peanut butter in a 3-quart saucepan over low
heat. Add marshmallows; stir occasionally until marshmallows are melted
and smooth. Add chow Mein noodles, mixing until noodles are thoroughly
coated. Drop noodle mixture by rounded tablespoonful onto greased cookie
sheet; shape with greased finders to form nests. Press 3 peanut
chocolate candies into center of each nest. Let stand until firm. Dust
bottom of nest lightly with confectioner\'s sugar, if desired. Makes
10-12 nests.

Date Nut Balls

Ruth Stinson

1 (16-oz.) package dates, pitted 1 cup sugar

2 sticks butter 2 cups Rice Krispies

1 cup broken pecans 1 teaspoon vanilla

Mix dates, sugar and butter in saucepan. Bring to boil; boil 10 minutes;
stirring constantly. Remove from heat; add Rice Krispies, pecans and
vanilla. Mix well; form small balls and roll in powdered sugar.

Pecan Pie Squares

3 cups all-purpose flour ¼ cup plus 2 tablespoons sugar

¾ cup butter, softened ¾ teaspoon salt

4 eggs, beaten 1 ½ cups sugar

1 ½ cups light corn syrup 3 tablespoons butter, melted

1 ½ teaspoons vanilla 2 ½ cups pecans, chopped

Preheat oven to 350°. Grease jelly roll pan. Beat flour, ¼ cup plus 2
tablespoons sugar, ¾ cup butter and salt in mixing bowl until crumbly.
Press mixture firmly into pan and bake 20 minutes or until light brown.
For filling: mix eggs, sugar, corn syrup, butter and vanilla. Stir until
mixed well and add pecans. Pour evenly over baked layer and bake 25
minutes or until filling is set. Cool before cutting into ½ inch
squares.

Meringue Kisses (or Forgotten Cookies)

2 egg whites 2/3 cup sugar

Pinch salt 1 teaspoon vanilla

6 oz. Chocolate chips ½ cup chopped pecans, optional

Preheat oven to 300º. Beat egg whites until foamy; add sugar and salt
gradually. Beat until stiff. Add chocolate chips and nuts (optional).
Drop by teaspoonful on cookie sheet lined with wax paper. Put in
preheated oven and turn oven off. Leave overnight. DO NOT OPEN OVEN
until ready to remove the cookies. Makes 2 dozen.

Peanut Butter Corn Flake Balls

1 cup light corn syrup 1 cup sugar

1 cup crunch peanut butter 6 cups corn flakes

1 cup salted peanuts

Combine corn syrup, sugar and peanut butter and heat well. Stir until
smooth; cook 1-2 minutes longer. Add to corn flakes and nuts. Make into
balls.

"Stuff"

Mary Glen Grant

1 stick butter 1 cup sugar

1 cup light Karo syrup 1 ½ boxes of Ritz Bits

1 cup dry roasted peanuts 1 cup pecans

1 cup slivered almonds

Melt butter, sugar and syrup over heat. Let boil 5 minutes, stirring
constantly. Using a large pan (may be disposable foil pan), mix all dry
ingredients in pan. Pour glaze over mixture stirring well. Cook at 250º
for 1 hour, stirring every 15 minutes. Pour over waxed paper and let
cool. Store in Ziploc bags.

Sweet Nothings

> Teri Brown

1 stick butter ½ cup smooth peanut butter

6 ounces butterscotch chips 1 (12-oz.) box Rice Chex cereal

¾ cup confectioners' sugar

Melt butter, peanut butter and butterscotch chips. Pour over Chex
cereal. Stir until coated.

Mix in confectioner's sugar. Stir until coated. Store in air-tight
container.
