# Appetizers

Bacon Crackers #1

Jean Hill

Waverly crackers

Oscar Mayer Bacon

Break crackers where perforated. Cut bacon slices into thirds; wrap each
third around a cracker (covering the cracker). Place on cookie sheet,
loose side of bacon down. Place in preheated 200º for 2 hours. (This is
Lou: You can line the cookie sheets with parchment paper; this prevents
the crackers from absorbing too much grease.)

Bacon Wrapped Crackers #2

1 lb. thinly sliced bacon Saltine Crackers

Brown Sugar

Preheat oven to 350°. Cut bacon slices in half. Wrap half of bacon slice
around saltine cracker and lay flat on baking sheet. Top each bacon
cracker with a pinch of brown sugar. Bake for 25 minutes or until bacon
is crisp. Remove from baking sheet and let cool.

Date-Bacon Wraps

1 lb. Whole and seeded dates 1 lb. Bacon

Cut bacon strips into fourths. Wrap one section of bacon around each
whole date and place on cookie sheet with end side down. Bake for 5-10
minutes at 400º or until bacon is lightly crisp.

Calla Lily Flower Sandwiches

Libbie Jackson

Roll white bread slice until 1/8^"^ thick. Cut into 1 ½ " rounds. Make
cream cheese mixture of 3-oz. Cream cheese and 1 tablespoons orange
marmalade. Spread cut bread rounds with cream cheese mixture. Pinch
bottom half to form the shape of calla lily flower. Stick a yellow
stamen in the center.\*

\*Yellow stamen is made by soaking almond slivers in yellow water (made
from adding yellow food coloring to water.) You can add sliver of carrot
if you can\'t eat nuts. Add small celery stick for stem.

Cheese Ball

¾ lb. Cheddar cheese, grated 8-oz. Cream cheese, softened

½ lb. Swiss cheese, grated 2 cloves garlic or garlic salt, optional\*

½ cup chopped pecans 1 teaspoon Worcestershire sauce

Paprika

Mix all ingredients except paprika with clean hands. Shape into ball.
Sprinkle paprika onto wax paper and roll cheese ball to cover in it.
Refrigerate until ready to use. Serve with assorted crackers.

\*I can\'t eat garlic, so I do not put it in the cheese ball I make. I
do, however, use a small dash of garlic powder.

Cheese Ball

Rhonda Black

11-oz. Cheddar cheese, grated 8-oz cream cheese, softened

½ teaspoon red pepper ½ teaspoon garlic salt

Chili pepper Worcestershire sauce

Chopped pecans

Blend cheese, red pepper and garlic salt. Form into a ball; sprinkle
outside with chili powder. Roll into Worcestershire sauce and then into
chopped pecans.

**Holiday Cheese Ball**

Recipe from kraftfoods.com

1 tub (8-oz.) cream cheese spread 2 cups shredded cheddar cheese

½ cup dried cranberries 2 tablespoons port wine, optional

½ cup chopped pecans ¼ cup maple-flavored syrup

Mix cream cheese, cheddar cheese, cranberries and wine (if using it)
until well-blended; cover. Refrigerate 1 hour. Shape into ball or other
desired shape; coat with pecans. Place on serving platter; drizzle with
syrup. Serve with an assortment of cup-up fresh vegetables, such as
carrots and celery sticks and crackers.

Snowman variation: Prepare cheese mixture as directed. Divide into 3
different-sized balls (1 small, 1 medium and 1 large). Coat balls with
grated Parmesan cheese. Place largest ball at bottom of serving plate
for base of "snowman." Place medium-size at top of large ball, and then
smallest ball at top for "snowman\'s head." Decorate with peppercorns or
sliced pitted ripe olives for the "snowman\'s eyes," "mouth" and
"buttons." Add a baby carrot for the nose.

Holiday Ham and Cheese Ball

1 cup (4-oz.) shredded Cheddar cheese 1 package (3-oz.) cream cheese,
room temperature

1 can (4 ½-oz.) Underwood Deviled Ham 2 tablespoons finely chopped
scallions, optional

3 tablespoons Old El Paso Chopped Green Chiles ½ cup chopped walnuts

Crackers

In a small bowl, combine cheeses, deviled ham, scallions (optional) and
chilies; mix well. Shape mixture into a ball. Roll in chopped nuts. Wrap
in plastic wrap; chill. Remove from refrigerator to soften slightly
before serving. Serve with crackers. Makes 1 (2-cup) cheese ball.

Lou's Pimento Cheese

Colby Cheese, grated Chopped Pimento

Hellman's Mayonnaise Lemon Juice

Grate cheese; add pimento with juice. Add squirt of lemon juice and
mayonnaise to get desired consistency.

Brooke's Pimento Cheese

> Brooke Struthers

1 lb. extra sharp cheddar cheese 1 (4-oz.) jar pimentos, drained

1/8 -- ¼ teaspoon onion powder ½ - 1 cup mayonnaise

Shred cheese; blend in pimento, onion powder and mayonnaise.

Cheese Puffs

1 loaf unsliced French bread ¼ pound sharp Cheddar cheese, grated

1 stick butter 2 egg whites

1 (3-oz.) package cream cheese

Preheat oven to 450º. Remove crusts from bread and cut inside of bread
into 1 inch cubes. Melt cheeses and butter in double boiler, stirring
often until thick and creamy. Remove from heat. Beat egg whites until
stiff; add to cheese mixture. Dip bread cubes into mixture and dry on
baking sheet lined with waxed paper. Freeze the cubes by placing baking
sheet into freezer for 30 minutes. Cubes may then be placed in plastic
bags and stored in the freezer until needed (will keep up to 1 month)
When ready to use, place frozen cubes on baking sheet; let thaw 30
minutes, and bake for 5-10 minutes until very lightly browned. Serve
hot.

**Cheese Straws**

Recipe from [www.about.com](http://www.about.com/)

1 ¾ cups flour 1/3 teaspoon salt

¼ teaspoon dry mustard, or to taste ¼ teaspoon cayenne (red) pepper or
to taste

1 ¼ pounds sharp cheddar cheese, grated & ½ cup (¼ pound) butter,
softened

room temperature

In a small bowl, combine flour, salt and other spices with a wire whisk.
Set aside. In a large mixing bowl, stand mixer is preferred, cream
cheese and butter. Gradually add flour mixture. Combine completely.
Preheat oven to 350º. Allow dough to rest for 10 to 15 minutes in
refrigerator. Lightly grease 2 cookie sheets. Press dough through a
cookie press onto prepared baking sheets. Bake for 20 to 30 minutes or
until crisp and lightly brown. Store in tightly covered container. These
may be frozen with wax paper between layers.

Spicy Cheese Straws

1 (11-oz.) package piecrust mix ¾ cup buttermilk

2 cups shredded sharp Cheddar cheese 1 cups shredded white Cheddar
cheese

1 teaspoon ground red pepper 1/8 teaspoon smoked paprika

Parchment paper ½ cup grated Parmesan cheese

Preheat oven to 350°. Beat piecrust mix and buttermilk at medium speed
with a heavy-duty electric stand mixer until blended. Add cheeses, red
pepper and paprika. Beat until combined; form dough into a ball.

Use a cookie press with a star-shaped disk to shape mixture into 1- to
3- inch ribbons, following manufacturer's instructions, on parchment
paper-lined baking sheets. Sprinkle evenly with Parmesan cheese. Bake at
350° for 14 minutes or until lightly browned. Remove to wire racks to
cool.

Store in airtight container in the refrigerator.

Cheese Wafers

Betty Jo Greer

1 pound sharp cheddar cheese 1 stick butter, softened

½ teaspoon paprika ½ teaspoon red pepper

2 cups all-purpose flour

Mix all ingredients well and roll into log about size of silver dollar.
Roll in wax paper and chill slightly until you can cut into round discs
(and they will keep their shape). Bake in preheated oven at 350º for 20
to 30 minutes. Don\'t overcook; they need to be crisp but not burnt.

Cheese Wafers #2

Louise Windham

1 stick butter, softened 1 lb. Sharp Cheddar cheese, grated

2 cups flour ½ teaspoon salt

¼ teaspoon paprika 1 ½ cups chopped pecans

Cream butter and cheese; add paprika; sift flour and salt. Make dough by
mixing thoroughly; add nuts; mix well. Shape into small logs; roll in
waxed paper. Chill several hours. Slice. Bake at 325º for about 10
minutes.

Crab Meat Dish

Connie James

1 (8-oz) cream cheese 1 tablespoon Worcestershire sauce

1 tablespoon grated onion (or onion juice) Dash garlic salt

2 tablespoons mayonnaise 1 tablespoon lemon juice

1 teaspoon horseradish Cocktail sauce

1 can all-white crab meat Fresh Parsley

Mix all ingredients except cocktail sauce and spread in glass pie plate.
Spread cocktail sauce over this. Rinse and dry crab meat; spread over
cocktail sauce. Sprinkle with small amount chopped parsley. Cover and
refrigerate. Serve with assortment of crackers.

Chex Mix

6 tablespoons butter 2 tablespoons Worcestershire sauce

1 ½ teaspoons seasoned salt ¾ teaspoon garlic powder

½ teaspoon onion powder 3 cups Corn Chex cereal

3 cups Rice Chex cereal 3 cups Wheat Chex cereal

1 cup mixed nuts 1 cup pretzels

Optional: 1 cup garlic-flavored bite-size bagel chips

Heat oven to 250º. Melt butter in large roasting pan in oven. Stir in
seasonings. Gradually stir in remaining ingredients until evenly coated.
Bake 1 hour, stirring every 15 minutes. Spread on paper towel to cool.
Store in airtight container.

Cracker Jacks

Loretta Thornhill

7 quarts of popcorn, popped (unsalted) 2 cups brown sugar, packed

1 cup butter ½ teaspoon salt

½ cup white Karo syrup 1 teaspoon vanilla

½ teaspoon soda Whole nuts (optional)

Mix sugar, butter, salt, syrup and vanilla; bring to boil and boil 5
minutes. Remove from heat; add soda and stir quickly. Pour over corn and
mix well. Add nuts at this point if you are using them. Put in flat pan
and bake at 250º for 1 hour. Stir occasionally. Cool and store in
airtight container.

Ham \'N Swiss on Biscuits

6 ¾ can chunk ham, drained and flaked 1 teaspoon instant minced onion or
2 tablespoons

2 teaspoons prepared mustard chopped onion

1 tablespoons butter, softened 1 teaspoon poppy seed

10-ounce can refrigerated biscuits 5 (4x4") slices Swiss cheese

Poppy seed

Heat oven to 375º. Combine ham, onion, poppy seed, butter and mustard;
reserve about 3/8 cup. Separate dough into 10 biscuits; press 5 biscuits
to 3 ½ "circles on ungreased cookie sheet. Spoon scant ¼ cup meat
mixture onto each flattened biscuit. Fold cheese slices into quarters;
place on meat mixture, pressing slightly. Divide reserved 3/8 cup meat
mixture over cheese. Press remaining 5 biscuits to 4" circles; slightly
stretch over meat mixture. Do not seal edges. Sprinkle with poppy seeds.
(Lou: At this point my recipe card ended and I lost other card with
remainder of instructions. However, this is what I would do. I would
bake these until they were golden brown and done. Then after they
cooled, I would cut them into small sections to serve.

**Vegetable Dip**

> Connie James

1 cup mayonnaise 1tablespoon lemon juice

½ teaspoon salt ½ teaspoon paprika

½ teaspoon curry powder ½ tablespoon chives

2 tablespoons dried minced onions 1 ½ teaspoons Worcestershire sauce

1 (8-oz.) carton sour cream

Mix all ingredients; chill. Serve with vegetables, chips, or crackers.

Original Spinach Dip

Hidden Valley

1 (10-oz.) box frozen spinach, chopped 1 (16-oz.) container sour cream

1 (8-0z.) can water chestnuts 1 (1-oz.) packet Hidden Valley

1 round loaf French bread Original Ranch Dips Mix

Fresh Vegetable sticks

Stir together spinach, sour cream, water chestnuts and dip mix. Chill 30
minutes or until just before serving. Cut top off the bread and remove
center (reserving bread pieces to use as dippers.) Fill bread bowl with
dip. Serve with cubed bread and vegetables.

Brickle Dip

> Rolena Prescott

2 containers (8 oz. each) cream cheese ½ cup brown sugar

½ cup granulated sugar ½ teaspoon vanilla

2/3 cup Brickle bits

Mix and serve with apple slices.

Caramel Nut Dip

Carol Baggett

16 individually wrapped caramels ¼ cup water

½ cup dark brown sugar 8 ounces cream cheese

Chopped pecans

Melt caramels with water. Add sugar, cream cheese and pecans. Serve with
sliced apples.

Mexican Dip

Mary Jo Maxwell

1 lb. Sausage 1 lb. ground beef

1 jar picante sauce 4-oz. Jalapeno relish

1 can chili (without beans) 1 lb. Velveeta cheese, melted

Brown beef and sausage; drain well and add remaining ingredients. Mix
well. Serve with chips or over baked potatoes.

Tomato Dip

Betty Easterly

1 large can petite cut tomatoes with juice 1 large green pepper, chopped

1 large onion, chopped Tabasco sauce (to taste)

Salt (to taste) Hot peppers, chopped (optional)

Mix all ingredients and chill for several hours or overnight (to mellow
all flavors).

**Cream Cheese and Salsa Dip**

****Jane Brooks

1 (8-oz.) cream cheese, room temperature 1 jar salsa

1 (8-oz.) bag shredded sharp Cheddar cheese 1 chopped tomato

1 can chopped black olives Chopped onions (optional)

Beat cream cheese and salsa together and spread in long dish. Sprinkle
with Cheddar cheese, tomatoes and olives. Make 4-6 hours before needed.

Ham Delights

1 ½ pounds ham ¾ pound Swiss cheese

1 medium onion, quartered (optional) 2 sticks butter, softened

3 tablespoons yellow mustard 1 teaspoon Worcestershire sauce

1 ½ tablespoons poppy seeds 3 packages party rolls (36 rolls)

Using steel blade of food processor, chop ham finely. Remove to bowl.
Chop cheese finely and set aside. Combine onion, butter, mustard and
Worcestershire; process; add poppy seeds and process. Split the whole
package of rolls as one large roll. Spread both insides with onion
mixture. Sprinkle ham and cheese on 1 side of rolls. Put rolls together
in original roll containers and cut out individual rolls. May return to
original plastic bag cover and freeze. When ready to serve, preheat oven
to 375º and heat for 15-20 minutes. Serve hot.

Mississippi Sin

1 loaf French bread 1 ½ cups sour cream

2 cups shredded cheddar cheese 8 ounces cream cheese, softened

½ cup chopped green onion ½ cup chopped ham

1/3 cup chopped green chilies 1 teaspoon Worcestershire sauce

Tabasco, salt & pepper to taste

Slice top off bread (long side); hollow the bread and save bread pieces
taken from bread. Mix all ingredients and pour inside bread. Wrap bread
in foil and bake at 350º for one hour.

Serve with remaining bread pieces that were hollowed out or use dip
style Fritos.

Oyster Crackers

1 package Hidden Valley Ranch Mix ½ teaspoon dill weed

¾ cup salad oil 5 cups oyster crackers

½ teaspoon lemon pepper (optional) ¼ teaspoon garlic powder (optional)

Preheat oven to 250º. Combine mix and dill and oil. Pour over crackers.
Stir to coat. Spread on cookie sheet. Bake for 15-20 minutes; stir
halfway through.

**Peanut Butter \'N Yogurt Dip**

½ cup creamy peanut butter 1 cup nonfat vanilla yogurt

6 cups assorted fruit (sliced apples, bananas, strawberries, and/or
peaches.

Combine peanut butter with yogurt. Use as dip for fruit or try topping
with whole-grain granola.

Tex-Mex Dip

Jill Struthers

1 jar Marie\'s avocado dressing 1 (10 ½ -oz.) jalapeno bean dip

1 cup sour cream ½ cup mayonnaise

1 package taco seasoning Monterey Jack cheese, grated

Cheddar cheese, grated Tomatoes, chopped

Onions, chopped (optional) Black olives, chopped

Lettuce, shredded

Combine sour cream mayonnaise and taco seasoning. Assemble dip.

Spread bean dip on bottom of glass casserole (or pie dish); spread
avocado dressing; then spread sour cream mixture. Sprinkle chopped
onion, tomatoes, olives and lettuce all over. Cover with grated cheeses.
Serve with corn chips.

Sausage Balls

3 Cups Bisquick 1 lb. Lean sausage

1 lb. Sharp Cheddar cheese, grated

Mix well with hands. Roll into balls (about size of ½ dollar). Bake at
350º for 15 minutes. These freeze well before or after baking.

Swiss Ham Ring-Around

1 cup fresh or frozen chopped broccoli, uncooked ¼ cup chopped parsley
or 2 tablespoons parsley

2 tablespoons finely chopped onion flakes

2 tablespoons prepared mustard 1 tablespoon butter, softened

1 teaspoon lemon juice ¼ cup (3-oz.) shredded Swiss cheese

1 can Hormel Chunk Ham, drained and 1 (8-oz.) can Pillsbury Refrigerated
Quick Crescent

separated into chunks Dinner Rolls

Grated Parmesan cheese

Heat oven to 350º. Cook and drain broccoli. In large mixing bowl,
combine parsley, onion, and mustard, butter and lemon juice; blend well.
Add cheese, broccoli and ham. Mix lightly. Set aside. Separate crescent
dough into 8 triangles. On greased cookie sheet, arrange triangles,
points toward the outside, in a circle with bases over-lapping. The
center opening should be about 3" in diameter. Spoon ham filling in a
ring evenly over bases of triangles. (Some filling may fall onto cookie
sheet.) Fold points of triangles over filling and tuck under bases of
triangles at center of circle. Sprinkle with Parmesan cheese. Bake at
350º for 25-30 minutes or until golden brown. Serve hot. 6 servings.

TIP: To make ahead, cover and refrigerate for up to 3 hours; bake 30-35
minutes.
