---
layout: recipe
title: "candy"
---

# Candy

Creamy Double Decker Fudge

1 cup peanut butter chips 1 can (14 oz.) sweetened condensed milk,

1 teaspoon vanilla, divided divided

1 cup semisweet chocolate chips

Line 8\" square pan with foil; set aside. In small microwave-safe bowl,
place peanut butter chips and 2/3 cup sweetened condensed milk.
Microwave at high (100%) 1 to 1-1/2 minutes,stirring after 1 minute,
until chips are melted and mixture is smooth when stirred. Stir in 1/2
teaspoon vanilla; spread evenly into prepared pan. In small
microwave-safe bowl, place remaining sweetened condensed milk and
chocolate chips; repeat above microwave procedure. Stir in remaining ½
teaspoon vanilla; spread evenly over peanut butter layer. Cover;
refrigerate until firm. Cut into 1\" squares. Store in tightly covered
container in refrigerator. Makes about 4 dozen squares or 1 ½ pounds.

Fudge Nougats

2 cups sugar ½ cup butter

1 cup evaporated milk 1cup (6 oz. package) semi-sweet chocolate chips

¾ cups all-purpose flour 1 cup finely crushed graham crackers

¾ cup pecans (or walnuts) chopped 1 teaspoon vanilla

Combine sugar, butter and milk in saucepan. Bring to full rolling boil,
stirring constantly. Boil 10 minutes, stirring occasionally. Stir in
chocolate chips, flour, graham crackers, nuts and vanilla. Spreda in
well-buttered 8 or 9\" square pan. If desired top with pecan (or walnut)
halves, one for each piece of candy. Cool; cut into squares. Makes 40
pieces.

Nutty Fudge

2 cups granulated sugar 3 tablespoons cocoa

½ cup evaporated milk ½ cup butter

½ cup peanut butter 2 cups quick oats

1 teaspoon almond extract (or vanilla)

Combine sugar, cocoa, milk and butter in a saucepan over low heat. Stir
until butter melts, then cook for two minutes. Add peanut butter, oats
and almond (or vanilla) extract and stir to mix well. Pour into a
lightly greased 9\" square pan. Refrigerate overnight and cut into
1-1/2\" squares. Makes 3 dozen squares.

Rich Cocoa Fudge

3 cups granulated sugar 2/3 cup cocoa

1/8 teaspoon salt 1 ½ cups milk

¼ cup (½ stick) butter 1 teaspoon vanilla

Line an 8 or 9\" square pan with foil; butter foil. Set aside. In heavy
4-quart saucepan, stir together sugar, cocoa and salt; stir in milk.
Cook over medium heat, stirring constantly, until mixture comes to a
full rolling boil. Boil, without stirring, to 234 degrees or until
syrup, when dropped into very cold water, forms a soft ball which
flattens when removed from water. (Bulb of candy thermometer should not
rest on bottom of saucepan.) Remove from heat. Add butter and vanilla.
DO NOT STIR. Cool at room temperature to 110º (lukewarm). Beat with
wooden spoon until fudge thickens and loses some of its gloss. Quickly
spread into prepared pan; cool. Cut into squares about 36. ****

**Semisweet Chocolate Fudge**

4 cups sugar 1 jar (7 oz.) marshmallow creme

1 ½ cups (12 oz.) can evaporated milk 1 tablespoon butter

4 cups (24 oz. package) semisweet chocolatechips

Line 13x9x2\" pan with foil, extending foil over edges of pan. Butter
foil lightly; set aside. In a heavy 4-quart saucepan, stir together
sugar, marshmallow creme, evaporated milk and butter. Cook over medium
heat, stirring constantly, until mixture comes to full rolling boil;
boil and stir 5 minutes. Remove from heat; immediately add chocolate
chips, stirring until smooth. Pour into prepared pan; cool until firm.
Use foil to lift fudge out of pan; peel off foil. Cut into squares.
Store tightly in a cool, dry place. Makes about8 dozen squares.

Fantasy Fudge

3 cups sugar ¾ cup (1 ½ sticks) butter

1 small can(5 oz.) evaporated milk (2/3 cup) 1 package (12 oz.)
semisweet chocolate chips

1 jar (7 oz.) marshmallow creme 1 cup pecans (or walnuts), chopped

1 teaspoon vanilla

Place sugar, butter and milk in 3-quart heavy saucepan. Bring to full
rolling boil on medium heat, stirring constantly. Boil about 4 minutes
or until candy thermometer reaches 234º, stirring constantly to prevent
scorching. Remove from heat. Add chocolate chips and marshmallow creme;
stir until melted. Add nuts and vanilla; mix well. Pour immediately into
foil-lined 9\" square pan; spread to evenly cover bottom of pan. Cool at
room temperature at least 2 hours; cut into 81 1\" squares. Store in
airtight container at room temperature. Makes 40 servings, 2 (1\")
squares each.

Tip: If you don\'t have a candy thermometer, bring sugar mixture to full
rolling boil, then begin timing 4 minutes while mixture continues to
boil to medium heat, stirring constantly.

Fantasy Fudge #2

¾ cup (1 ½ sticks) butter 3 cups sugar

2/3 cup evaporated milk 1 package (12 oz.) Semi-sweet chocolate chips

1 jar (7 oz.) marshmallow creme 1 cup pecans, chopped

1 teaspoon vanilla

Microwave butter in 4-quart microwave-safe bowl on HIGH 1 minute or
until melted. Add sugar and milk; mix well. Microwave on HIGH 4 minutes
or until mixture begins to boil; stirring after 3 minutes. Mix well;
scrape bowl. Continue microwaving 5 ½ minutes; stir after 3 minutes.
Stir in chips until melted. Add remaining ingredients; mix well. Pour
into greased 9\" square pan or 13x9\" greased pan. Cool at room
temperature; cut into squares. Makes 3 pounds.

Sour Cream Fudge

2 cups sugar 2 tablespoons white corn syrup

2 tablespoons butter 1 cup sour cream

1 teaspoon vanilla ½ cup pecans, chopped

Combine all ingredients and cook until soft ball stage (234 degrees or
until syrup, when dropped into very cold water, forms a soft ball which
flattens when removed from water). Cool and add vanilla and nuts. Pour
into buttered dish. Let cool completely before cutting.

****

Deluxe Fudge

2 cups sugar ¾ cup evaporated milk

2 tablespoons butter ½ teaspoon salt

1 (5 oz.) Nestle King-size Milk Chocolate Bar 2 envelopes (2 oz. each)
Nestle Choco-Bake

1 teaspoon vanilla unsweetened chocolate flavor

In small saucepan, combine sugar, evaporated milk, butter and salt.
Bring to full boil over moderate heat, stirring constantly. Boil 5
minutes over moderateheat, stirring constantly. Remove from heat. Add
Nestle Milk Chocolate Bar, Nestle Choco-bake and vanilla; stir until
chocolate melts and mixture is smooth. Pour into foil-lined 8\" square
pan. Chill in refrigerator until firm (about 2 hours). Cut into 1\"
squares.

Three-Chocolate Fudge

3 1/3 cups sugar 1 (12-oz.) can evaporated milk

1 cup butter 1 cup dark brown sugar

32 large marshmallows, halved 2 cups (12-oz.) semisweet chocolate chips

2 milk chocolate candy bars (7-oz. Each) 2 squares (1-oz. Each)
semisweet baking

1 teaspoon vanilla chocolate (chopped)

2 cups chopped pecans

In a large saucepan, combine first sugars, milk, and butter. Cook and
stir over medium heat until sugar is dissolved. Bring to a rapid boil;
boil for 5 minutes, stirring occasionally. Remove from heat; stir in
marshmallows until melted. Add all 3 chocolates; stir until melted. Fold
in vanilla and pecans; mix well. Pour into a greased 15x10x1" baking
pan. Chill until firm. Cut into squares.

Magic Chocolate French Fudge

1 cup (6-oz.) package semi-sweet chocolate pieces 1/3 cup plus 1
tablespoon sweetened

Pinch of salt condensed milk

½ teaspoon vanilla 3 tablespoons ground nuts

In top of double boiler, melt chocolate over hot water; stir a few
times. Remove from heat. Stir in sweetened condensed milk, salt and
vanilla and nuts, if used. Stir only until smooth. Turn into waxed
paper-lined container. Press into block 1" high. Refrigerate until firm;
about 2 hours. Invert container on cutting board. Lift off container;
peel off paper. With a sharp bladed knife, cut fudge into servingt
pieces. Stor in an airtight container. Makes about ½ pound.

Fudge Nougats

Carole Reed

2 cups sugar ½ cup butter

1 cup evaporated milk 1 cup (6-oz.) semi-sweet chocolate pieces

¾ cup finely crushed graham crackers ¾ cup chopped nuts

1 teaspoon vanilla

Combine sugar, butter and milk; bring to a full rolling boil, stirring
constantly. Boil 10 minutes, stirring occasionally. Stir in chocolate
pieces, graham cracker crumbs, nuts and vanilla. Spread in well-buttered
12x8" or 9x9" pan. Cool. (For faster setting, place candy in
refrigerator.) Cut into squares.

Two-Tone Fudge

2 cups packed brown sugar 1 cup granulated sugar

1 cup evaporated milk ½ cup butter

1 jar (7-oz.) marshmallow creme 1 teaspooon vanilla

1 (6-oz.) package (1 cup) butterscotch pieces 1 cup coarsely chopped
walnuts

1 (6oz.) package (1 cup) semi-sweet chocolate pieces

In saucepan, combine sugars, milk and butter. Bring to full boil,
stirring constantly over moderate heat. Cook 10 minutes, stirring
occasionally. Remove from heat. Add marshmallow creme and vanilla; mix
unti smooth. To 2 cups of mixture, add butterscotch pieces and ½ cup of
the walnuts; blend well. Pour evenly into greased 9" square pan. To
remaining hot mixture, add chocolate pieces and ½ cup walnuts; blend
well. Pour over butterscotch mixture. Chill until firm. Makes about 2 ½
pounds.

Foolproff Fudge

½ pound butter 18 ounces semi-sweet chocolate chips

2 tablespoons vanilla 1-2 cups chopped nuts, optional

4 ½ cups sugar 1 can evaporated milk (12-oz.)

Place butter, chocolate chips, vanilla and nuts in large bowl. Set
aside. In large (5-quart), heavy saucepan, bring sugar and milk to a
boil, stirring constantly. Boil and continue stirring for 8 minutes
(mixture will bubble up). Pour milk mixture over chocolate mixture and
stir to blend.\
Beat with electric mixer approximately 2 minutes until smooth and
creamy. Pour into greased 9x13" pan. Makes 4 pounds.

Creamy Fudge

½ cup butter ¾ cup Hershey's cocoa

2 cups sugar 1/8 teaspoon salt

¾ cup evaporated milk 1 jar (7-oz.) marshmallow cream

1 teaspoon vanilla 1cup chopped pecans

No-stick cooking spray

Melt butter in a 4-qt. Saucepan prayed with no-stick cooking spray. Add
cocoa and stir until smooth. Add sugar, salt, evaporated milk and
marshmallow creme. Bring mixture to a full boil; boil and constantly
stir 5 minutes or until 226° on candy thermometer. Remove from heat and
stir in vanilla. Cool 20 minutes. Beat with a wooden spoon until mixture
loses its gloss. Blend in nuts. Spread into a 9x9" pan sprayed with
no-stick cooking spray. Cool until set. Cut into 1" squares. Store in an
airtight container.

Fast Chocolate-Pecan Fudge

½ cup butter ¾ cup cocoa

4 cups powdered sugar 1 teaspoon vanilla

½ cup evaporated milk 1 cup pecans, chopped

Line an 8\" square pan with foil; set aside. In a 2-quart microwave-safe
bowl, place butter. Microwave at high (100%) 30 seconds to 1 minute or
until melted. Add cocoa and stir until smooth. Stir in powdered sugar
and vanilla; blend well (mixture will be dry and crumbly). Stir in
evaporated milk. Microwave at high 1 minutes; stir. Microwave additional
1 minute or until mixture is hot. Beat with wooden spoon until smoth;
add pecans. Pour into prepared pan. Cool. Cover; refrigerate until firm.
Cut into 1\" squares. Cover; store in refrigerator. Makes about 4 dozen
squares.

Creamy Fudge

1 (24 oz.) package Eagle Brand Chocolate or 1 (14 oz.) can Eagle Brand
Sweetened

Vanilla Flavored Candy Coating Condensed Milk

2 tablespoons half-and-half or milk 2 teaspoons vanilla

1/8 teaspoon salt 1 cup pecans (or other nuts), chopped

In heavy saucepan, over medium heat, melt candy coating with sweetened
condensed milk, half-and-half, vanilla and salt. Remove from heat; stir
in nuts. Spread evenly into aluminum foil-lined 9\" square or 13x9\"
baking pan. Chill 4 hours or until firm. Turn fudge onto cutting board;
peel off foil and cut into squares. Store tightly ccovered in
refrigerator or at room temperature.

***MICROWAVE\*:*** In a 2-quart glass measure, combine candy coating,
sweetened condensed milk, half-and-half, vanilla and salt. Cook on 100%
power (high) 6-8 minutes or until melted, stir every 1-1/2 minutes until
mixture is smooth Proceed as above. \*Microwave ovens vary in wattage
and power output; cooking times and power levels may needto be adjusted.

Mexican Candy

Linda Owens

1 cup milk 2 cups sugar

3 tablespoons white Karo syrup 2 cups pecan halves

2 tablespoons butter ½ teaspoon vanilla

Mix milk, sugar, syrup and pecans; bring to boil and boil until candy
thermometer reads 240º. Remove from heat. Cool to lukeward and add
butter and vanilla. Beat lightly until mixture begins to thicken. Drop
my spoonfuls onto wax paper. Work quickly so candy will be smooth.

Nut Bark

1 (24 oz.) package Eagle Brand Chocolate- 1 ½ cups coarsely chopped
almonds,

or Vanilla-Flavored Candy Coating walnuts, pecans, or caschews

In heavy saucepan, over low heat, melt candy coating, stirring
frequently. Remove from heat; stir in nuts. Spread into thin layer on
aluminum foil-lined baking sheets. Chill 30 minutes or until firm. Break
into chunks. Store covered at room temperature or in refrigerator.

***Microwave\*:*** In 2-quart glass measure, melt candy coating on 50%
power (medium) 5-6 minutes, stirring every 2 minutes. Stir until mixture
is smooth Proceed as above.

\*Microwave ovens vary in wattage and power output; cooking times and
power levels may need to be adjusted.

Peanut Butter Fudge #1

Louise Windham

(Eze loved to make this; it is delicious and one of Pop\'s and my
favorite candies.)

2 cups sugar ½ cup milk

¼ stick butter 3 tablespoons white Karo syrup

½ cup (or 1 cup) peanut butter 1 teaspoon vanilla

In heavy saucepan combine sugar, milk, butter and syrup. Cook over
medium heat, stirring constantly, until mixture comes to a full rolling
boil. Boil stirring occasionally until syrup when dropped into very cold
water, forms a soft ball which flattens when removed from water. (This
usually takes nearly 5 - 15 minutes, but you just have to keep watching;
don\'t let the candy turn brown.) Remove from heat ad add the peanut
butter (I ususally add more than 1/2 cup.) and vanilla. Beat until
creamy. Pour into a prepared platter that has been spread with butter.

Peanut Butter Fudge #2

½ cup butter 1 lb. Box confectioners' sugar

1 lb. Box light brown sugar ½ cup milk

¾ cup peanut butter 1 teaspoon vanilla

Melt butter. Add brown sugar and milk; bring to a boil. Boil 2 minutes
(stir constantly.) Take off heat and stir in peanut butter and vanilla.
Add powdered sugar. Pour onto buttered cookie sheet. Let cool and cut
into squares.

Peanut Butter Fudge

6 cubes (12 oz.) Eagle Brand Chocolate- or ½ cup peanut butter

Vanilla Candy Coating ½ cup chopped peanuts

1 teaspoon vanilla

In heavy saucepan, over low heat, melt candy coating with sweetened
condensed milk and salt. Remove from heat; stir in peanut butter then
peanuts and vanilla. Spread evenly into aluminum foil-lined 8 or 9\"
square pan. Chill 2 hours or until firm. Turn fudge onto cutting board,
peel off foil and cut into squares. Store loosely covered at room
temperature.

***Microwave:*** In 2-quart glass measure, combine candy coating,
sweetened condensed milk and salt. Cook on 100% power (high) 5-6
minutes, stirring after each 1 ½ minutes. Stir in peanutbutter then
peanuts and vanilla. Proceed as above.

\*Microwave ovens vary in wattage and power output; cooking times and
power levels may need to be adjusted.

Microwave Peanut Brittle

Sheila Ramsey

1 cup sugar ½ cup white Karo syrup

1 cup peanuts (if raw, add 1/8 teaspoon salt) 1 teaspoon vanilla

1 teaspoon butter 1 teaspoon baking soda

Stir sugar, syrup and peanuts well. Place in microwave-safe dish and
microwave for 4 minutes on high; stir afer cooking; return to oven for 2
½ minutes (high). Remove and add 1 teaspoon butter and 1 teaspooon
vanilla; stir and return to over for 1-2 minutes (until golden). Remove
quickly and add soda; stir gently. Pour onto lightly greased (buttered)
cookie sheet. Let cool completely.

Peanut Brittle

Faye Holliday

1 ½ cups sugar ½ cup white Karo syrup

¼ cup water 3 cups raw peanuts

2 teaspoons butter 1 teaspoon soda

¼ teaspoon salt

Cook all the ingredients in an iron skillp over medium heat, stirring
constantly with a wooden spoon. Cook until mixture spins a long thin
thread when holding a spoonful over the skillet. "Let it spill from the
spoon until it is about head high; this ususally takes 7-8 minutes."

Add 3 cups raw peanuts and cook until it turns golden brown (about 15
mintes more.) Remove from heat immediately and add 2 teaspoons butter, 1
teaspoon soda and ¼ teaspoon salt. Stir vigorously but quickly pour onto
buttered board or conuntertop sprayed with Pam. Pull or stretch until
very, very thin while mixture is still very warm.

Pecan Pralines #1

Paula Deen

2 cups sugar 1 cup half and half cream

1/8 teaspoon baking soda ½ stick butter

1 ½ cup pecans, chopped or whole

Combine sugar, cream, soda and butter; heat on medium heat, stirring
constantly about 15 minutes until soft ball stage (238-240º). Add
pecans. Take off heat. Dip with ice cream scoop and drop onto buttered
cutting board or dish.

Pecan Pralines #2

2 ½ cups sugar 1 teaspoon soda

1 cup buttermilk (or 1 cup milk and ¼ teaspoon salt

3 tablespoons vinegar) 3 tablespoons butter

2 cups pecan halves

Mix sugar, soda, salt and buttermilk. Cook over hight heat about 5
minutes (stir constantly). Add butter and pecans. Cook, stirring
constantly, and scrape the bottom and sides of pan until candy forms
soft ball. Remove from heat; cool 3-4 minutes. Beat until thick and it
looses shiny look. Drop by tablespoons onto wax paper.

Chocolate Peanut Clusters

½ pound sweet chocolate 2/3 cup (about ½ can) Eagle Brand

1 cup unsalted peanuts (or any nuts) sweeteded condensed milk

In top of double boiler, melt chocolate over hot water. Remove from
heat. Stir in milk and nuts; be sure to cover all nuts with mixture.
Drop teaspoonfuls onto buttered cookie sheet or large-sized pan.
Refrigerate several hours.

Peanut Butter Snow Balls

1 tablespoon butter 1 cup crunchy peanut butter

¾ cup powdered sugar 1 ½ cups Rice Krispies

1 cup powdered milk 3 tablespoons milk

½ teaspoon vanilla Coconut

Mix butter, peanut butter and sugar. Add Rice Krispies. Shape into balls
and refrigerate for at least 30 minutes. In double boiler, mix powdered
sugar, milk and vanilla. Let this mixture get warm. Then dip the balls
in the glaze and roll in coconut. Refrigerate.

Chocolate Candy (Known as Martha Washiongton Balls)

> Louise Windham

1 can Eagle Brand Milk 2 boxes powdered sugar

1 stick butter, softened 1 cup Angel Flake coconut

3 cups chopped pecans 1 block parafin

12 oz. Semi-sweet chocolate chips

Mix milk, sugar, butter, coconut and pecans. Form into small balls (must
use your hands). Put in freezer until hard. Melt parafin and chocolate
chips in top of double boiler. Keep double boiler over low heat and dip
balls with toothpicks. Place on waxed paper on cookie sheet and return
to freeser or refrigerate until set. Makes about 100 balls.

\*Eze (Louise) and I use to make these every Christmas. It was so much
fun to make them together and also to eat them!

Peanut Butter Quickies

2 cups graham cracker crumbs 1 cup sugar

¾ cup evaporated milk ¾ cup peanut butter

Pecan halves

Combine crumbs, sugar, milk and peanut butter in a large bowl. Mix well.
Drop by teasppoonful onto greased cookie sheet. Top each with pecan
half. Bake at 350º for abut 12-15 minutes.

Meringue Kisses (or Forgotten Cookies)

2 egg whites 2/3 cup sugar

Pinch of salt 1 teaspoon vanilla

6 oz. Chocolate chips

Preheat oven to 350°. Beat egg whites until foamy. Add sugar and salt
gradually. Beat until stiff; fold in chocolate chips. Drop by teaspoon
onto cookie sheets lined with wax paper. Put cookie sheets in overn.
Turn off ove. Leave overnight. Put a sign on over door -- DO NOT OPEN!
Do not open the door until the next day. Best to make these at night
after dinner and forget them until the morning.

Candy Cookies

2 cups sugar ½ cup cocoa powder

1 stick butter ½ cup milk

Pinch of salt 1 ½ cups oatmeal (uncooked quick-cooking)

½ cup crunchy peanut butter 1 teaspoon vanilla

Combine sugar, cocoa, butter and salt in saucepan. Boil over medium heat
3 minutes. Remove from heat and add oatmeal, peanut butter and vanilla.
Let cool just a bit. Drop by teaspoonfuls onto wax paper.

Candy Apples

2 cups light brown sugar, packed 2/3 cup water

1 tablespoon light corn syrup ½ teaspoon vanilla

6-8 apples with sticks

Combine sugar, water and corn syrup in a small deep saucepan. Stir with
a wooden spoon to blend; place over medium high heat, stirring until
sugar is dissolved. Bring to a boil and continue cooking without
sitrring, until the mixture is 290° on a candy thermometer. Remove from
the heat and add vanilla. When the mixture quits bubbling, put the first
apple in the saucepan. Place apples on a buttered pan or buttered
aluminum foil to solidify. To solidify quickly, immediately submerge the
coated apple into ice water, then let drain on dampened towel and place
on the buttered pan.

\*You can also melt a couple of cinnamon-flavored candies to add a kick
(and a bit of color).

Sugared Peanuts

Meredith Daffin Jones

1 cup sugar

½ cup water

3 cups raw peanuts

Heat water in iron skillet (or heavy, such as club aluminum) until sugar
dissolves in water.

ADD peanuts and cook until well coated w/mixture.

Pour peanuts onto a greased pan (jelly roll pan works well).

Cook @ 250 degrees in oven for 1 hour or until taste done (stir often).

****
