Baked Almond Chicken Casserole

3 cups chopped cooked chicken 1 ½ cups celery slices

1 cup Miracle Whip Salad Dressing or ½ cup slivered almonds, toasted

Mayonnaise 1 teaspoon salt

1 cup (4-oz.) finely-chopped Swiss ¼ cup chopped onion

cheese slices 2 tablespoons chopped pimento

Dash of pepper 1 tomato, cut in wedges

Heat oven 350º. Combine chicken, celery, salad dressing (or mayo), ¼ cup
almonds, cheese, onion, pimento and seasonings. Mix lightly. Place in
10x6\" baking dish. Sprinkle with remaining almonds. Bake at 350º for 25
minutes. Top with tomato wedges; continue baking 5 minutes. 4-6
servings.

Breakfast Casserole

6 eggs, beaten 1 cup milk

2 slices bread, torn into pieces 1cup shredded cheddar cheese

1 lb. Ground sausage, cooked and drained or 1 teaspoon salt

1 lb. Ham slices, cut into small pieces 1 teaspoon dry mustard

Mix all ingredients; pour into well-buttered casserole dish. Cover and
refrigerate overnight. Bake in 350º oven about 50 minutes.

Corn and Sausage Casserole

4 eggs, beaten 1 (17-oz) can cream-style corn

1 teaspoon salt ¼ teaspoon pepper

1 cup bread crumbs 1 pound sausage, uncooked and crumbled

½ cup cracker crumbs

Combine all ingredients except cracker crumbs, mixing well. Spoon into a
lightly greased 10x6x1-3/4\" baking pan. Sprinkle with cracker crumbs.
Bake at350º for 50 minutes or until done. Six servings.

Corn Bread Dressing

2 cups chopped onions 3 cups chopped celery

Butter 6 cups cornbread, crumbled\*

3 cups stale or toasted white bread, crumbled\*\* 2 tablespoons poultry
seasoning

1 teaspoon celery seed 1 teaspoon sage

1 teaspoon salt 3 eggs, well-beaten

2-3 cups chicken broth, enough to moisten Black Pepper, generous amount

Sauté onion in butter until tender, but not brown. Repeat for celery.
Heat chicken broth. Combine all other ingredients; then add warm stock
and mix well. Place in greased casserole dish and bake at 350º for 40
minutes or until nicely browned.

LOU: I don't use sage, and I use lots of black pepper. I use more broth
to get a soupier dressing.

\*I bake one recipe of cornbread (Martha White Cornmeal) baked in cast
iron skillet.

\*\*I use 15 slices of white bread that is several days old.

Frito Chili Pie

Marsha McGehee

Chili Fritos

Onion Cheddar Cheese

Make your favorite recipe of chili or use canned chili. In greased
casserole dish, layer Fritos, chili, onion and cheddar cheese; repeat
layers; bake at 350º for 30 minutes.

Pineapple Casserole

1 (20-oz.) can sweetened crushed pineapple, 5 tablespoons flour

Undrained (or use tidbits) ½ cup sugar

1 cup grated cheddar cheese ¾ tube Ritz or Townhouse crackers, crushed

1 stick melted butter

Butter (or spray) bottom of casserole dish. Layer the can of pineapple
with juice; flour, sugar and cheese -- in that order. Add crushed
crackers with butter and sprinkle over casserole. Bake at 350° for 20
minutes or until bubbly.

Hot Pineapple Casserole

Eliza Bowden

1 (20-oz.) can pineapple (not drained) 3 eggs, well-beaten

½ cup sugar 2 tablespoons flour

½ teaspoon salt 4 slices bread, cut in cubes

2/3 stick butter, melted

Combine pineapple and eggs. Combine sugar, flour and salt. Mix with
pineapple. Put in 1-quart greased casserole. Melt butter and toss bread
cubes with butter. Top casserole with bread cubes and bake at 350º for
30-40 minutes until casserole bubbles and bread cubes begin to brown.

Macaroni and Cheese #1

2 cups macaroni 1 tablespoon butter

1 tablespoon flour ¾ teaspoon salt

2 cups milk 1 ½ cups grated cheddar cheese

¼ teaspoon paprika

Melt butter; blend in flour and salt; add milk and cook, stirring
constantly until thickened. Add cheese and stir until melted. Cook
macaroni according to directions. Combine macaroni and cheese sauce in
greased casserole. Sprinkle with paprika. Bake at 375º for 25 minutes. 6
servings.

Macaroni and Cheese #2

> Ken McKinney

2 cups cooked elbow macaroni 3 tablespoons butter

3 eggs 3 cups milk

8 saltine crackers 8-oz. (1 cup) extra sharp Cheddar cheese, shredded

Butter a 1 ½ quart casserole dish. Place one cup macaroni in bottom of
dish. Scatter ½ of cheese over macaroni. Crumble 4 saltine crackers over
all. Dot with half of the butter. Repeat layering of ingredients ending
with crumbled crackers. Beat eggs with milk and pour over all. Bake at
350° until puffy, about 40 minutes. Serves 4.

Rice Creole Dish

****Toni Tennille

Olive oil 2 onions, chopped

1 bell pepper, chopped 3-4 sticks celery, chopped

3 cups ripe tomatoes, chopped 1 cup brown rice

Juice of ½ lemon 2 tablespoons sweet basil

Cayenne pepper, to taste Salt, to taste

Cheddar cheese

Sauté onions in olive oil until golden brown. Add bell pepper and
celery. Sauté briefly. Add tomatoes. Cover and simmer until tomatoes
become liquefied. Add 1 cup washed brown rice, lemon juice, basil and
pepper and salt. Bring to boil, then lower heat, cover and simmer 45
minutes. Add shredded mild cheddar cheese. Place under broiler to brown
cheese, or replace lid and let cheese melt through.

Rice with Green Chilies and Sour Cream

¾ cup raw rice\* 2 cups sour cream

1 lb. Jack cheese 1 (6-oz.) can peeled green chili peppers

Butter Salt

½ cup grated cheese

Cook rice as usual. Combine with sour cream. Season to taste with salt.
Arrange ½ in casserole. Place pieces of cheese (or grated) on top with
layer of green chilies on top of this. Top with rice; dot with butter
and top with cheese. Heat 30 minutes at 350º. This can be frozen or
refrigerated the day before. Can substitute ½ Swiss and ½ Cheddar
cheese. 1 cup of raw rice can be used instead of ¾ cup.

Seafood Casserole

1 ½ cups cooked shrimp ¾ cup chopped green pepper

1 cup thinly sliced celery 1 tablespoon Worcestershire Sauce

1 can cream of mushroom soup 1 ½ cups crab meat

¼ cup chopped onion 3-4 slices of bread

1 tablespoon lemon juice 1 cup mayonnaise

Tear bread slices into small pieces. Mix all ingredients in large bowl;
pour into greased baking dish. Bake at 350º for 30-40 minutes. This
freezes beautifully.

Smoked Sausage with Cabbage, Sweet Potatoes and Apples

1 to 1 ½ pounds Smoked Sausage, cut 1 (13 ¾ oz.) can chicken broth

into ½\" slices 1 tablespoon prepared mustard

1 teaspoon mustard seeds, optional 1 pound sweet potatoes, peeled and
cut

2/3 cup onion, coarsely chopped into ½\" chunks

1 ¼ pounds green cabbage, shredded 1 large Golden Delicious or other
firm

coarse (6 packed cups) apple, quartered, cored and cut into

½\" pieces

Stir chicken broth and mustard in deep 12\" skillet. Add mustard seeds
(optional) and bring to boil. Add sweet potatoes and onions. Reduce heat
to medium, cover and cook about 5 minutes, until potatoes are almost
tender, stirring occasionally. Add smoked sausage and cabbage. Cover and
cook about 15 minutes longer, stirring once or twice, until potatoes are
tender and cabbage is crisp-tender. Stir in apple. Cover and simmer
additional 3 minutes until apple is crisp-tender. 4 servings.

Spicy Beef Casserole

1 ½ pounds lean ground beef 1 cup chopped onion

1 clove garlic, crushed 1 can (16-oz.) stewed tomatoes

1 jar (8-oz.) mild taco sauce 1 can (4-oz.) chopped green chilies,
drained

5 teaspoons beef flavor bouillon or 2 tablespoons all-purpose flour

5 bouillon cubes 1/3 cup water

2 cups Bisquick baking mix 3 tablespoons yellow cornmeal

2/3 cup milk

Heat oven to 375º. Cook and stir beef, onion and garlic in 10\" skillet
until beef is brown; drain. Stir in tomatoes, sauce, and chilies ad
bouillon. Cook until bouillon is dissolved. Mix flour and water; stir
into beef mixture. Heat to boiling, stirring constantly. Boil and stir 1
minute. Pour into 13x9x2" baking dish.

Mix baking mix, 2 tablespoons of the cornmeal and the milk until soft
dough forms; beat vigorously until stiff, 30 seconds. Drop by
tablespoonful onto beef mixture; sprinkle with remaining cornmeal. Bake
uncovered until biscuits are golden brown, about 20 minutes. 6-8
servings.

Farmer's Style Brown 'N Serve

8 ounce package Brown 'N Serve Sausage Links 3-4 tablespoons butter

3 cups frozen hash brown potatoes 1 ¼ cups shredded sharp Cheddar cheese

5 eggs Chopped parsley

Brown sausage in a 9" skillet; remove and set aside. Melt butter and
cook potatoes until barely tender and lightly browned. Pat down flat in
pan. Arrange sausage in spoke-fashion in the pan, leaving 5 spaces for
cheese and eggs. Sprinkle cheese on potatoes. Carefully crack eggs on
top of cheese. Cover and cook over medium-low heat until eggs are set or
done to individual's liking. Garnish with parsley, if desired. Serve for
breakfast, brunch, lunch or dinner.

Goulash

1 lb. ground beef 1 (28-oz.) can undrained tomatoes

1 cup diced celery ½ cup diced green pepper

2 teaspoons salt 1/8 teaspoon pepper

¼ teaspoon celery salt 1 teaspoon Worcestershire sauce

8 oz. elbow macaroni Grated cheddar cheese

Brown beef and drain. Cook macaroni. Add all ingredients together except
cheese. Put in 3-qt. casserole. Bake at 350° for 30 minutes. Cover with
cheese; let melt before serving. Serves 10.

Corn Casserole

> Avis Culver

1 package Mr. Quigg's Yellow Rice 1 can Mexicorn, drained

1 can cream of celery soup 1 stick butter

Grated cheddar cheese

Cook yellow rice by directions on package. Add butter, soup and corn.
Mix and put in casserole. Top with cheese. Bake at 350° for 20-30
minutes.

Red Beans and Sausage

1 lb. red beans, soaked overnight 1 onion, chopped

2 stalks celery, chopped 1 clove garlic, minced

Cured ham, diced 1 (28-oz.) can whole tomatoes, mashed

Crushed red peppers, to taste 1 teaspoon thyme

6-8 bay leaves Smoked Link Sausage

Precook sausage to remove as much grease as possible; then slice in
rounds. Put all ingredients in crock pot and cover with water. Cook
until beans are tender or to desired doneness.

\

Mexican Casserole

> Fay Johnson

1 lb. ground beef 2 small cans tomato sauce

2 small cans olives 2 small cans diced green chilies

3-4 cups Monterey Jack cheese, shredded 11 oz. bag taco chips, crushed

1 cup cheddar cheese ½ teaspoon garlic powder

1 pint sour cream 1 pint cottage cheese

Mix Monterey Jack cheese, sour cream and cottage cheese together; add
drained diced chilies. Brown meat, drain; add garlic powder and tomato
sauce. In long casserole, put layer of chips, then layer of meat, and
then layer of cheese mixture. Make 2 layers of each. Top with a few
chips and cheddar cheese. Bake at 350° for 30 minutes.

Cabbage Casserole

1 small head cabbage 2 medium onions

1 cup rice 1 lb. ground beef

1 med jar spaghetti sauce 2 cups grated cheese

Salt and pepper to taste Garlic salt

Finely chop cabbage and onions. Layer in casserole. Brown dry rice in
oven and spread over cabbage. Sauté beef, garlic salt, salt and pepper
to taste. Spread over cabbage mixture. Pour spaghetti sauce over beef
and cook 340° for 1 hour. Spread cheese over it and let melt. Serves
6-8.

Corn chowder with Chiles

¼ lb. bacon slices or chorizo, chopped 1 cup chopped onion

½ cup chopped celery ¼ cup chopped celery leaves

1 (4-oz.) can diced green chilies, drained Dash cumin

2 tablespoons flour 1 (16-oz.) can whole kernel corn

3 cups milk 1/8 teaspoon black pepper

1 teaspoon salt 1 ½ cups shredded jack cheese

Avocado slices

Fry bacon in saucepan, then remove and drain on paper towels. Set aside.
Pour off all but 3 tablespoons fat. Add onion, celery, celery leaves and
chilies. Cook until vegetables are tender, about 8 minutes. Add cumin
and flour and stir until blended. Add undrained corn, milk, salt and
pepper. Cook and stir until soup comes to boil and is slightly
thickened. Just before serving, stir in 1 cup cheese. Pour into soup
bowls and sprinkle with remaining cheese and bacon. Garnish with avocado
slices. Makes 4-6 servings.

Garden Quiche

1 cup Bisquick baking mix ¼ cup cold water

1 cup chopped fresh or frozen broccoli (frozen) 1 cup shredded Swiss
cheese (4-oz.)

½ can (3-oz.-size) French fried onions (1 cup) 4 eggs

2 cups whipping cream ¾ teaspoon salt

¼ teaspoon sugar 1/8 teaspoon cayenne pepper

Heat oven to 425°. Mix baking mix and water until soft dough forms; beat
vigorously 20 strokes. Gently smooth dough into ball on floured
cloth-covered board. Knead 5 times. Roll dough 2" larger than inverted
9"pie plate. Ease into plate; flute edge if desired. Sprinkle broccoli,
cheese and onions in crust. Beat remaining ingredients with hand beater;
pour over broccoli mixture. Bake 15 minutes.

Reduce oven temperature to 300°. Bake until knife inserted 1" from edge
comes out clean, about 35 minutes. Let stand 10 minutes before cutting.
Refrigerate any remaining quiche. 6 servings.

Sausage, Eggs, Grits Casserole

1 lb. hot bulk sausage 1 lb. mild bulk sausage

2 cups (8-oz.) shredded Cheddar cheese 2 cups cook grits

1 ¾ cups milk, heated ½ cup butter, melted

1 (8-oz.) package corn bread mix (Jiffy) 1 (6-oz.) roll garlic cheese,
cut up

6 eggs, lightly beaten 1/8 teaspoon Worcestershire sauce

1/8 teaspoon Tabasco sauce

Impossible Quiche

12 slices bacon, crispy fried and crumbled 1 cup shredded Swiss cheese
(4-oz.)

1/3 cup fined chopped onion 2 cups milk

½ cup Bisquick baking mix 4 eggs

¼ teaspoon salt 1/8 teaspoon pepper

Heat oven to 350°. Lightly grease 9or 10" pie plate. Sprinkle bacon,
cheese and onion evenly over bottom of pie plate. Place remaining
ingredients in blender container. Cover and blend on high speed 1
minute. Pour into pie plate. Bake until golden brown and knife inserted
in center comes out clean, 50-55 minutes. Let stand 5 minutes before
cutting. Refrigerate any leftover quiche. 6 servings.

Impossible Ham 'n Swiss Pie

2 cups cut-up fully cooked smoked ham 1 cup shredded Swiss cheese
(4-oz.)

1/3 cup chopped green onions or onion 4 eggs

2 cups milk 1 cup Bisquick baking mix

¼ teaspoon salt 1/8 teaspoon pepper

Heat oven to 400°. Grease pie plate, 10x1 ½ ". Sprinkle ham, cheese and
onions in plate. Beat remaining ingredients until smooth, 15 seconds in
blender on high or 1 minute with hand beater. Pour into plate. Bake
until golden brown and knife inserted in center comes out clean, 35-40
minutes. Cool 5 minutes. 6 servings.
