---
layout: recipe
title: "desserts"
---

# Desserts

**Apple Dumplings #1**

> Lola Tarrants

1 package crescent rolls 4 Granny Smith apples, cored & cut up

1 stick butter 1 cup sugar

Small pineapple or orange juice

Roll out crescent rolls; fill each with apples and seal. Place on
sprayed pan. Combine butter, sugar and juice and let come to a boil.
Pour over apple dumplings. Bake at 350° for 20-25 minutes.

**Apple Dumplings #2**

> Becky Wright

2 large Granny Smith Apples 1 can Pillsbury Crescent Rolls

Cinnamon to taste 1 stick butter

1 large can evaporated milk 1 cup sugar

Peel and quarter the apples. Wrap each quarter in an uncooked triangle
of the crescent roll. Place in a greased baking dish and sprinkle with
cinnamon. Melt butter and stir milk and sugar until sugar dissolves.
Pour in baking dish around apples and bake for 25 minutes at 350°.

**Apple Dumplings #3**

2 cans of crescent rolls (or croissant) 4 apples (peeled, cored and cut
into wedges)

1 ½ cups water 1 ½ cups sugar

¾ cup butter 1 ½ teaspoon vanilla

¾ teaspoon cinnamon

Wrap apple wedges into a triangle of dough. Shape to enclose and seal
apple. Place into 9x13" greased dish. Combine last 5 ingredients in
saucepan. Heat over medium heat until just boiling. Pour over apples.
Bake 30 minutes at 350°. Baste when possible (every 10 minutes). Serve
warm with vanilla ice cream.

**Apple Dumplings #4**

1 large Granny Smith apple 1 can crescent rolls

1 cup sugar 1 cup water

1 stick butter Vanilla Ice Cream

Spray a 9x13" casserole dish with Pam. Separate the crescent rolls into
8 parts. Peel, core and cut the apple into 8 equal parts. Wrap each
apple piece in crescent roll and place in casserole dish. Put the sugar,
water and butter in a saucepan and bring to a boil. Pour the mixture
over the rolls with apples. Bake at 350° for 30-40 minutes. Serve warm
with ice cream.

**Apple Dumplings #5**

Jerry Kemp's SS Class

2 Granny Smith apples, peeled and cut into 2 cans crescent rolls (1 can
each apple)

8 sections 2 sticks butter

1 ½ cups sugar (or Splenda) 1 ½ cups Mountain Dew (or Sprite)

Cinnamon to taste Chopped nuts to your liking

Heat oven to 350°; wrap each 1/8 apple section in piece of crescent roll
dough (place apple slice at large end of dough and roll up). Place in
lightly greased baking dish. Melt butter and mix with sugar, spread over
apples; pour Mt. Dew over apples. DO NOT STIR. Sprinkle with cinnamon
and chopped nuts. Bake uncovered about 45 minutes.

**Apple Dumplings #6**

3 cups Bisquick baking mix ¾ cup cold water

6 small to medium baking apples, Ground cinnamon

Pared and cored Sugar

Butter Cinnamon Sauce (below)

Heat oven to 375°. Mix baking mix and water until soft dough forms; beat
vigorously 20 strokes. Gently smooth dough into ball on floured
cloth-covered board. Knead 5 times. Divide dough into 3 equal parts.
Roll each part into rectangle, 12x6". Cut each rectangle crosswise into
halves. Place apple in center of each square; sprinkle with cinnamon and
sugar. Dot with butter. Carefully bring dough up around apple; pinching
corners together to seal. Place on ungreased cookie sheet. Sprinkle
generously with cinnamon and sugar. Bake until brown; about 35 minutes.
Serve with Cinnamon Sauce. 6 servings.

*[Cinnamon Sauce:]{.underline}*

1 cup sugar 1 tablespoon cornstarch

¼ teaspoon ground cinnamon 1 cup water

Few drops red food color, if desired 1 tablespoon butter

Mix sugar, cornstarch and cinnamon in saucepan. Stir in water and food
color. Heat to boiling, stirring constantly. Boil and stir 1 minute.
Stir in butter.

**Blueberry Crisp**

3 cups fresh blueberries ¼ cup white grape juice

½ teaspoon ground allspice Vegetable cooking spray

1/3 cup quick-cooking oats, uncooked ¼ cup whole wheat flour

2 tablespoons brown sugar ½ teaspoon baking powder

1/8 teaspoon ground nutmeg 3 tablespoons butter, softened

Combine blueberries, grape juice and allspice in a medium saucepan.
Bring to a boil; reduce heat, and simmer 2 minutes, stirring
occasionally. Pour mixture into an 8"square baking dish coated with
cooking spray.

Combine next 5 ingredients in a small bowl; stir in butter until mixture
is crumbly. Sprinkle topping over blueberry mixture; bake at 350° for 25
to 30 minutes. Serve hot or at room temperature. Yield: 6 servings
(about 149 calories per serving).

**Quick Blueberry Tart**

4 refrigerated crescent rolls (4-oz. can) 2 cups fresh or thawed frozen
blueberries

3 tablespoons sugar Optional: sugar substitute = to ¼ cup

2 tablespoons cornstarch 2 tablespoons lemon juice.

Line an 8 or 9" square pan (nonstick or sprayed with cooking spray) with
rolls; spread evenly. Combine all remaining ingredients; toll gently but
thoroughly. Pour berries evenly over the surface of dough. Bake in
preheated 425° oven 10-12 minutes. Cool before serving.

Makes 9 squares; each has 84 calories.

**Peach/Apple Cobbler**

1 stick butter 2 cans peach or apple pie filling\*

¾ cup self-rising flour (Pour out ½ of juices)

¾ cup sugar ¾ cup milk

Cinnamon to taste

Melt butter in deep dish pie plate. Make batter of flour, sugar, flour
and milk. Pour over melted butter. Top with peaches or apples. Do not
stir. Sprinkle with cinnamon. Bake at 350° for 1 hour.

\*I copied this as printed, but I think it should be canned peaches or
apples for pies (not pie filling -- pie filling will make this extremely
thick).

**Peach Cobbler #1**

> Taken from Newspaper Food Section

2 cups sliced peaches 2/3 cup sugar

1 stick butter 2 frozen pie crusts

Preheat oven to 350°. Layer 1 cup peaches, 1/3 cup sugar and ½ stick
butter into 1 pie crust. Repeat layers. Sprinkle a little sugar over top
crust and bake for 35-40 minutes at 350°. Serve plain or with whipped
topping or ice cream.

**Peach Cobbler #2**

> Pat Hill

6-8 peaches 5 slices white bread (trimmed)

1 cup sugar 2 tablespoons flour

1 stick melted butter 1 egg

Butter an 8" square pan. Cut peeled peaches into pan. Cut bread into 5
finger slices. Place over peaches. Mix sugar and flour; melt butter and
add to flour mixture. Add egg and mix well. Add to peaches and bread.
Bake at 350° for 30 minutes or until brown on top.

**Peach Cobbler #3**

> Taken from newspaper food section

1 stick butter 1 cup sugar

1 cup milk 1 cup self-rising flour

1 teaspoon vanilla 1 pint (or a little more) peaches (or fruit)

Preheat oven to 350°. Melt butter in a 1 ½ quart baking dish as oven
heats. Meanwhile, in a blender mix milk, flour, sugar and vanilla and
pour into dish over melted butter. Pour fruit over batter. Do not mix.
Batter will rise over the top of the fruit to form a crust. Bake for
40-45 minutes or until golden brown. Blackberries make a delicious
substitute.

**Paula Deen Peanut Butter Chocolate Trifle**

 

1 package brownie mix -- prepared and cut into small squares

2 packages vanilla instant pudding mix

3 cups milk

1 2/3 cups creamy peanut butter divided

½ cup butter softened

2 cups powdered sugar divided

4 teaspoons vanilla extract

1 ½ cups sour cream

2 cups Cool Whip

½ cup sugar

15 peanut butter cups -- cut into fourths

 

Garnish -- peanut butter cups cut into fourths

 

Pudding Layer:

Combine pudding mix and milk. Whisk in 2/3 cup peanut butter. Set aside.

 

Peanut Butter Layer:

Combine remaining peanut butter and butter. Beat a medium speed. Add 1 ½
cups powdered sugar and 2 ½ teaspoons vanilla. Mix until blended and set
aside.

 

Sour Cream Layer:

Combine Cool Whip, remaining powdered sugar and remaining ½ teaspoon
vanilla. Beat until smooth.

 

Assemble:

Place 1/3 of brownies in bottom of dish. Spread ½ of pudding mixture
over brownies. Top with 1/3 of brownies. Spread peanut butter layer over
brownies. Sprinkle with peanut butter cups. Top with remaining brownies.
Spread ½ pudding mixture over brownies. Top with Cool Whip and garnish
with peanut butter cups.

**Apple Delight**

> Florence Wilson

1 can Comstock fruit pie filling 1 box Jiffy Mix cake mix

Sliced almonds 6 tablespoons melted butter

Arrange fruit in 8"square baking dish sprayed with Pam. Add cake mix
evenly over fruit (make sure edges are sealed with mix. Sprinkle almonds
over cake mix. Pour melted butter evenly over dessert. Bake at 350° for
45 minutes.

**Apple Dessert**

> Jill Struthers

2 cups sugar 1 ½ cups self-rising flour

2 sticks butter (melted) ½ pound Velveeta cheese, cut in small

2 (20-oz.) cans pie apples squares

Layer apples in buttered 9x13" dish. Mix sugar and flour; add butter and
cheese. Pour over apples. Bake at 350° for 30-45 minutes.

**Apple Cobbler**

> Meredith Jones

1 bag Granny Smith apples, peeled & cut up ½ cup sugar

½ cup water 1 cup self-rising flour

1 cup sugar 1 egg

1 stick melted butter

Peel and cut up apples; spread in 9x13" buttered dish. Sprinkle ½ cup
sugar and water over apples. Mix flour, 1 cup sugar, egg and butter;
spread over apples. Bake at 350° until brown.

**Apple Crisp for Two**

> Barbara Windham

2 large tart apples, peeled and sliced 1 tablespoon lemon juice

3 tablespoons brown sugar 3 tablespoons quick oats

3 tablespoons melted butter Cinnamon to taste

Vanilla ice cream

Place apples in 3 cup buttered casserole dish. Sprinkle with lemon
juice. Mix together butter, oats and brown sugar. Crumble over top.
Cover and bake at 350° for 30 minutes. Uncover and bake 15 minutes. Add
ice cream on top when ready to serve.

**Hot Apple Pie Dessert**

*[Cake:]{.underline}*

1 cup flour 1 cup sugar

1 teaspoon soda ¼ teaspoon nutmeg

¼ teaspoon cinnamon ¼ teaspoon salt

1 egg 2 tablespoons evaporated milk

½ teaspoon vanilla 4 medium tart apples, peeled and sliced

Mix dry ingredients; fold in remaining ingredients. Pour into 9x9x2"
buttered dish. Bake at 350° for 30 minutes. Makes sauce and pour hot
sauce over cake before serving.

*[Sauce:]{.underline}*

½ cup brown sugar ½ cup white sugar

1 stick oleo ½ cup evaporated milk

Combine ingredients in saucepan and let come to boil. Bowl 5 minutes.
Pour hot sauce over cake before serving.

**Apple-Cranberry Casserole**

1 cup sugar 2 cups raw fresh cranberries

3 cups tart diced apples (unpeeled) 1 cup quick oats

½ cup brown sugar 1 cup pecans

Put apples, cranberries and sugar in bottom of a 9x13" well-buttered
casserole dish. Mix the oats, brown sugar and pecans over the top of the
fruit. Dot the entire top with butter. Bake at 325° for 1 hour.

**Cranberry-Apple Dessert**

> Judy Chipman

2 ½ or 3 pounds firm Gala apples 12 ounces cranberries

½ cup sugar 3 tablespoons flour

1 teaspoon vanilla 1 tablespoon fresh orange juice

6 tablespoons cold butter, cut in small pieces 2/3 cup flour

2/3 cups oats ¾ cup light brown sugar

½ teaspoon nutmeg ¼ teaspoon salt

Preheat oven to 370°. Butter a 9x13" baking dish. Cut apples in 1/2"
chunks. Combine apples, cranberries, ½ cup sugar, 3 tablespoons flour,
vanilla and orange juice. Spread in buttered dish. Combine remaining
ingredients and mix until made into crumbs. Sprinkle over the berries
and apples. Bake for 55-60 minutes.

**Banana Pudding**

> Joan Mathison

3 eggs, separated 2 cups milk

1 cup sugar 6 tablespoons flour

1 tablespoon butter 1 teaspoon vanilla

3-4 ripe bananas 1 box Nilla Vanilla Wafers

6 tablespoons sugar

Separate eggs; put egg yolks in top of double boiler and beat well; put
egg whites in glass bowl.\*

In another bowl combine 1 cup sugar and flour; make sure these are mixed
thoroughly. Add the milk to the beaten eggs in the top of the double
boiler; mix well. Gradually add in small amounts the dry mixture to the
egg/sugar mixture, mixing well after each small addition. When mixture
is well combined, cook in double boiler over medium heat. Stir
constantly. As the mixture thickens, keep it stirred, keeping the
pudding smooth and well-stirred. Cook until the mixture will keep a
little shape on top, but DO NOT OVERCOOK or pudding will make pudding
too thick.

**No-Bake Banana Pudding**

Jean Kocher, 1981

1 (8-oz.) carton sour cream 2 (3 ½-oz.) boxes instant vanilla pudding

3 ½ cups milk Vanilla Wafers

3 bananas 1 (8-oz.) carton Cool Whip

Mix sour cream, pudding and milk until thickened. Put in layers in a
large Pyrex dish wafers, pudding and bananas; repeat layers. Top with
Cool Whip and refrigerate. Will keep several days in refrigerator.

**Banana Split Pudding**

1 (15 ¼ -oz.) can crushed pineapple, well drained Cold water

1 (14-oz.) can Eagle Brand Sweetened 1 (4-serving size) package instant
banana

Condensed milk cream or vanilla flavor pudding and

2 cups whipping cream, whipped pie filling mmix

1 (15 ¼ -oz.) package chocolate wafers, about 40 4 medium bananas,
sliced and dipped in

Lemon juice

To reserved pineapple liquid, add enough water to make 1 ½ cups. In
large bowl, combine Eagle Brand milk; add pudding mix and beat well. Add
pineapple. Chill 10 minutes. Fold in whipped cream. Spoon 1 ½ cups
pudding into 3-to-4 quart glass serving bowl. Top with one-third each of
chocolate wafers, bananas and pudding. Repeat layering twice, ending
with pudding. Chill thoroughly. Garnish as desired. Refrigerate
leftovers.

**Bread Pudding**

Bon Ton Restaurant in New Orleans -- from

Maria Hill

1 loaf French bread 1 quart milk

3 eggs 2 cups sugar

2 tablespoons vanilla extract 3 tablespoons butter, melted

1 cup raisins ¼ to ½ cup whiskey, opt. I DON'T USE

Soak bread in milk; crush with hands. Add eggs, sugar, vanilla and
raisins. Stir well. Spread butter in bottom of 13x9x3" pan. Pour mixture
over butter in pan. Bake at 350° until firm. Cool and cube. When ready
to server, add sauce and heat under broiler.

*[Sauce]{.underline}*:

1 stick butter 1 cup sugar

1 egg, beaten

Mix butter and sugar in top of double boiler; cook until very hot. Add
little mixture into egg and mix; add little more until egg is warm. Add
egg mixture to mixture in top of boiler. Cool. Add whiskey if desired (I
do not add it).

**Applesauce Bread Pudding**

1 loaf (16 ounces) sliced light-style white bread 1 cup raisins

2 teaspoons ground cinnamon 2 cups skim milk

1 cup applesauce 8 egg whites

½ cup firmly packed brown sugar 1 ½ teaspoons vanilla extract

Cut sliced bread into ½ " cubes. Toss with raisins and cinnamon in a
large bowl. In another bowl, beat together milk, applesauce, egg whites,
sugar and vanilla. Pour mixture over bread cubes and let stand 25
minutes. Heat oven to 350°. Spray an 8" square baking pan with nonstick
cooking spray. Pour bread mixture into prepared pan and bake 35 to 40
minutes or until a knife inserted in the center comes out clean. Remove
from oven. Let cool 15 to 20 minutes and serve. Serves 10.

**Blueberry Bread Pudding**

1 tablespoon butter, softened ½ cup sugar

2 eggs 1 teaspoon vanilla

2 cups milk 5 cups bread cubes cut to 1" square or

1 cup fresh blueberries smaller (sourdough loaf or other

1 tablespoon sugar heavy bread)

½ teaspoon cinnamon

In a large mixing bowl, beat butter and sugar with electric mixer on
medium speed until well combined. Add eggs and vanilla; beat 2-3 minutes
or until fluffy. Slowly stir in milk. Place bread cubes in extra large
bowl; pour milk mixture over the bread and mix well soaking the cubes.
Let stand 5 minutes. Gently stir blueberries into bread mixture;
transfer to an ungreased 2-quart baking dish. Combine 1 tablespoon sugar
and cinnamon; sprinkle evenly over mixture. Drizzle 1/3 cup of sauce
over top. Bake about 35 minutes in 350° oven or until knife inserted
comes out clean. Serve warm with additional sauce spooned over
individual servings. Serves 6.

*[Sauce:]{.underline}*

2 tablespoons butter ½ cup sugar

1 cup whipping cream 2 tablespoons brandy (optional)

In medium pan, combine butter and sugar. Cook and stir over low heat
until butter is melted. Stir in cream, and if desired, brandy. Bring to
a boil while continuously stirring; reduce heat. Boil gently, uncovered,
for 10-15 minutes or until sauce is slightly thickened. Refrigerate if
not using in 2 hours. Reheat when serving.

**4 --Layer Chocolate Dessert**

Crust: 2 cups flour

2 sticks butter

1 cup chopped pecans

Melt butter; add flour; stir in nuts. Press evenly into 13x9" dish. Bake
in preheated oven 350° until slightly brown, about 10 minutes. DO NOT
GET TOO BROWN! Cool.

2^nd^ Layer:

1 (8-oz) package cream cheese, softened

1 cup confectioners' sugar

1 (12-oz.) cool whip

Mix cream cheese and sugar. Fold in cool whip. Spread evenly on cooled
crust.

3^rd^ Layer:

1 (6-oz.) package chocolate pudding

3 cups milk

Mix pudding with milk according to directions on package.

4^th^ Layer:

1 (8 or 12-oz.) package cool whip

Spread cool whip evenly over pudding. Best to let pudding set a little
to get firm before spreading cool whip.

**Warm Peanut Butter Pudding**

From Kraft Kitchens

2 cups cold milk 1 box (4-serving size) JELL-O Chocolate

¼ cup peanut butter Instant Pudding & Pie Filling

¼ cup thawed Cool Whip

Pour milk into medium bowl. Add dry pudding mix. Beat with whisk 2
minutes or until well blended. Spoon evenly into four microwaveable
dessert dishes. Top each with 1 tablespoon peanut butter. Microwave on
high 30 seconds or until peanut butter begins to melt and pudding is
heated through. Top each serving with 1 tablespoon of whipped topping.

**Note:** For best results, heat 1 or 2 servings at a time. Pudding can
also be served cold.

Healthy Living: Save 80 calories and 3 grams of fat per serving by
preparing with JELL-O Chocolate Flavored Fat Free Instant Reduced
Calorie Pudding and Pie Filling, reduced fat peanut butter and Cool Whip
Lite Whipped Topping.

**Vanilla Ice Cream #1**

Nita Mitchell

1 can Eagle Brand milk 2 cups whipping cream

2 cups half-and-half 1 cup cold water

1 tablespoon vanilla extract

Combine all ingredients; mix well. Pour into the ice cream tub; continue
filling tub with regular milk until at marked level on tub. Freeze.

Note: This recipe can be doubled; less regular milk will need to be
added to marked level.

To make lemon flavor ice cream, add 1 tablespoon vanilla extract and 1
tablespoon lemon extract.

To make peppermint ice cream, add 1 tablespoon vanilla extract and one
tablespoon peppermint extract and some crushed soft peppermint.

**Vanilla Ice Cream #2**

Loette Lee

1 cup sugar 1 can condensed milk

1 large can evaporated milk 1 container whipped cream (2 cups)

1 tablespoon vanilla extract

Mix all ingredients and pour into freezer tub; fill tub to marked level
with regular milk. Freeze.

**Vanilla Ice Cream #3**

Jan Everts

3 cups milk 4 egg yolks

¾ cup sugar 1/8 teaspoon salt

1 ½ cups half-and-half 3 teaspoons vanilla

Combine milk, egg yolks, sugar and salt in top of double boiler. Cook
over boiling water, stirring occasionally, until the mixture coats the
spoon. Let cool and strain. Add the half-and-half and vanilla.

Fill a 1-gallon freezer container not more than 2/3 full. Freeze in a
hand-turned or electric freezer according to manufacturer's directions.
Let ripen about 2 hours.

**Vanilla Ice Cream #4**

Recipe found in Montgomery Advertiser

2 cups sugar ¼ cup cornstarch

¼ teaspoon salt 4 cups milk

4 eggs, beaten\* 2 tablespoons vanilla extract

4 cups half-and-half, chilled

Mix sugar, cornstarch and salt in top of double boiler. Blend in milk
gradually. Cook over boiling water, stirring occasionally, until
thickened, about 12 to 15 minutes.

Stir in small amount of the hot cornstarch mixture into beaten eggs;
then stir the eggs into the remaining cornstarch mixture.\*\* Cook over
boiling water 4 to 5 minutes longer; stir occasionally.

Chill mixture thoroughly. This is essential for a smooth ice cream. Stir
in vanilla and half-and-half. Fill a 1-gallon freezer container not more
than 2/3 full. Freeze in a hand-turned or electric freezer according to
manufacturer's directions. Let ripen about 2 hours.

These are Lou's notes:

\*If eggs are used, it is essential to cook the custard.

\*\*Adding a little of the hot mixture to the beaten eggs is essential
to temper the eggs and keep them from coddling. Continue adding a little
of the hot mixture to the eggs until egg mixture is warm. Then all the
eggs can be added to the mixture in the boiler.

**Vanilla Ice Cream #5\***

Meredith Daffin Jones

5 eggs 2 cups sugar

1 quart regular milk 1 large can evaporated milk

½ can (from evap. Milk) water 1 tablespoon vanilla extract

Mix eggs and sugar well in top of double boiler. Gradually add regular
milk. Cook over boiling water until custard sticks to spoon. Cool
(preferably in refrigerator). Add large can evaporated milk and ½ can
water. Fill a 1-gallon freezer container not more than 2/3 full. Freeze
in a hand-turned or electric freezer according to manufacturer's
directions. Let ripen about 2 hours.

Note: To make peach ice cream, follow directions above and just before
filling the freezer container, add sweetened peaches which have been
sweetened with sugar.

**Vanilla Custard Ice Cream #6**

Recipe found in Montgomery Advertiser

2 quarts milk 1 ½ cups sugar

2 tablespoons flour ¼ teaspoon salt

8 eggs 1 (13-oz.) can evaporated milk

1 tablespoon vanilla extract

Scald milk in a large saucepan. In a large bowl mix sugar, flour and
salt. Pour this dry mixture into the hot milk and cook 3 minutes,
stirring. Beat eggs well and slowly add little of hot mixture at a time
to the eggs until eggs are warm; add egg mixture to hot mixture,
stirring constantly to prevent curdling. Cook over low heat until the
mixture coats a spoon, about 15 minutes, stirring constantly. Remove
from heat and add evaporated milk and vanilla. Let cool completely
before you put in the ice cream freezer. Follow freezer instructions
when read to make ice cream. Makes 4 quarts.

**Vanilla Ice Cream #7**

Recipe from Eagle Brand Ad

4 cups (2 pints) half-and-half or light cream 1 (14-oz.) can Eagle Brand
Sweetened

2 tablespoons vanilla extract Condensed Milk

Combine all ingredients in container or ice cream maker; mix well.
Freeze according to manufacturer's instructions. Freeze leftovers.

*[Refrigerator-Freezer Method:]{.underline}*

OMIT half-and-half. Combine sweetened condensed milk and vanilla in
large bowl. Fold in 2 cups heavy cream, whipped. (DO NOT use non-dairy
whipped topping.) Pour into 9x5 loaf pan or other 2-quart container.
Cover. Freeze 6 hours or until firm.

*[Peach Ice Cream:]{.underline}*

Reduce vanilla to 1 tablespoon; add 1 teaspoon almond extract and 4
drops yellow and 2 drops red food coloring, if desired. Add 2 cups
mashed fresh or frozen peaches (thawed) or 1 (16-oz.) can peaches,
drained and mashed. Proceed as above.

*[Banana Ice Cream:]{.underline}*

Reduce vanilla to 1 tablespoon; add 2 cups mashed bananas (4 medium).
Proceed as above.

**Peach Ice Cream #1**

Recipe from Montgomery Advertiser

5 eggs 1 ½ cups sugar, divided

1 (14-oz.) can sweetened condensed milk 1 (12-oz.) can evaporated milk

1 tablespoon vanilla 5 cups whole milk

2 cups mashed peaches

Beat eggs until foamy. Add 1 cup sugar and beat well. Add sweetened
condensed milk, evaporated milk and vanilla and mix well. Pour into a
heavy saucepan and bring to a boil over medium heat, stirring
constantly. Boil 1 minute; then remove from heat. Add ½ cup sugar to the
peaches and mix well. Add whole milk and peaches to cooked mixture.
Refrigerate until cool. Pour into a 5-quart ice cream freezer and
freezer according to manufacturer's directions.

**Peach Ice Cream #2**

Southern Living

4 cups peeled, diced fresh peaches (about 1 cup sugar

8 small ripe peaches) 1 (12-oz.) can evaporated milk

1 (3.75-oz.) package vanilla instant pudding mix 1 (14-oz.) can
sweetened condensed milk

4 cups half-and-half

Combine peaches and sugar, and let stand 1 hour. Process peach mixture
in a food processor until smooth, stopping to scrape down sides. Stir
together evaporated milk and pudding mix in a large bowl; stir in peach
puree, condensed milk and half-and-half. Pour mixture into freezer
container of a 4-quart hand-turned or electric freezer; freeze according
to manufacturer's instructions. Spoon into an airtight container and
freeze until firm. Makes 2 quarts.

**Chocolate Ice Cream**

Recipe found in Montgomery Advertiser

2/3 cup cocoa powder 2 2/3 cups sugar

¼ teaspoon salt 1 quart milk

6 eggs, well beaten 3 cups heavy cream

1 tablespoon vanilla extract Milk

Marshmallow sauce Toasted angel flake coconut

Combine cocoa powder, sugar and salt in a saucepan. Gradually stir in 1
quart milk. Add eggs and cook over medium heat, stirring constantly.
Bring mixture to a boil. Remove from heat and cool slightly. Stir in
cream and vanilla. Pour into 1-gallon freezer can and add enough milk to
fill can 2/3 full. Freeze to desired firmness. Top with marshmallow
sauce and toasted angel flake coconut.

**Ice Cream Dessert**

Loette Lee

1 stick soft butter 2 cubes Ritz crackers, crushed

1 ½ cups cold milk 2 (3-oz.) packages vanilla instant pudding

½ gallon vanilla ice cream, softened mix

Cool Whip, optional

Blend butter and crushed crackers. Place all but 1 cup of crackers in
9x13 dish, sprayed with vegetable spray. Mix milk and pudding mix. Fold
in softened ice cream. Spread over cracker mixture. Sprinkle saved 1 cup
cracker crumbs over top. Place in freezer. Cool Whip can be spread over
top if desired.

Note: For chocolate dessert, substitute chocolate ice cream for vanilla
ice cream.

**Quick Ice Cream Sandwich Dessert**

Loette Lee

3 Hershey Skor Bars or Heath Bars 6 or 12 ice cream sandwiches

Chocolate Syrup Caramel syrup

Cool Whip

Depending on size dessert you want, place ice cream sandwiches in
rectangular dish. Drizzle chocolate and caramel syrups over ice cream
sandwiches. Sprinkle crushed candy on top of this. Save enough crushed
candy to put on final top. Cover with Cool Whip; sprinkle remainder of
crushed candy on top. Freeze and enjoy!

**Ice Cream Sandwiches**

Recipe from Rice Krispies Cereal Box

½ cup corn syrup 4 cups Kellogg's Rice Krispies cereal

1 pint ice cream, cut into six (3x3x ½ ") slices ½ cup peanut butter

In medium-size mixing bowl, stir together corn syrup and peanut butter
until smooth. Add Rice Krispies cereal. Stir until well coated. Press
mixture evenly in buttered 13x9x2" pan. Cover. Place in freezer or
coldest part of refrigerator until firm.

Cut cereal mixture into 12 (3-inch) squares. Sandwich each slice of ice
cream between 2 squares. Freeze until firm. Cut each large sandwich in
half and wrap individually in foil. Store in freezer until needed.
Yield: 12 sandwiches.

**Peanut Butter Ice Cream Sandwiches**

Betty Crocker Recipe

1 pouch (1 pound 1.5 ounces) peanut butter, 1/3 cup vegetable oil

chocolate chip or chocolate oatmeal 1 egg

chip cookie mix 4 ½ cups chocolate or vanilla ice cream,

Chopped peanuts or tiny candies, if desired slightly softened

Heat oven to 375°. Stir cookie mix, oil and egg in medium bowl until
soft dough forms. Shape dough into 36 balls, about 1 inch each. Place 2
inches apart on ungreased cookie sheet. Flatten in crisscross pattern
with fork.

Bake 7-9 minutes or until edges begin to brown. Cool 2 minutes; remove
from cookie sheet to wire rack. Cool completely, about 30 minutes.

For each ice cream sandwich, press about ¼ cup ice cream between 2
cookies; place in jelly roll pan. Roll the ice cream edges in chopped
peanuts or candies before freezing. Freeze about 30 minutes or until
firm. Store wrapped in plastic wrap.

**Frozen Passion**

2 (14-oz.) cans Eagle Brand Sweetened 1 (2-liter) bottle or 5 (12-oz.)
cans

Condensed milk carbonated beverage, any flavor

In ice cream freezer container, combine ingredients; mix well. Freeze
according to manufacturer's instructions. Store leftovers in freezer.

*[Passion Shakes:]{.underline}*

In blender, combine one-half can sweetened condensed milk, 1 (12-oz.)
can or 1 ½ cups carbonated beverage and 3 cups ice. Blend until smooth.
Repeat if desired. Freeze. Makes 1 quart.

**Cobbler**

1 can (21-oz.) cherry or peach pie filling ¾ cup all-purpose flour

3 tablespoons sugar, divided 1 ½ teaspoon baking powder

¼ teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons milk

1 egg, slightly beaten 2 tablespoons butter, melted

¼ cup graham cracker crumbs ½ teaspoon cinnamon

Spread ½ can of pie filling into each covered bowl and microwave on high
for 1 ½ to 3 minutes or until hot and bubbly all over. Stir after half
the microwave time. Combine the flour, 2 tablespoons sugar, baking
powder and salt in a mixing bowl. Combine the milk, eggs and butter and
add to the dry ingredients. Mix only until moistened. Separately combine
the graham cracker crumbs, 1 tablespoon and cinnamon. Divide the dough
in half. Roll each half of dough in crumbs to coat. Place the coated
dough on top of the heated filling. Microwave uncovered on high for 4 to
6 minutes or until the biscuits are done, rotating the bowl ½ turn every
2 minutes. Serve warm with cream.

**Fruit Cobbler**

Gayle Price Elmore

1 cup sugar Any kind of fruit\*

1 cup sugar 1 cup self-rising flour

1 egg 1 stick butter, melted

Sprinkle 1 cup sugar over peeled and cut up fruit in greased 13x9 baking
dish. Mix 1 cup sugar, flour, egg and butter. Spread over the sugared
fruit and bake at 350° until brown (about 45-50 minutes).

\*Use about 3 pounds of peaches.

**Peach Cobbler**

1 stick butter, melted 1 cup sugar

¾ cup flour 2 teaspoons baking powder

Pinch of salt 1 cup milk

1 can sliced peaches

Melt butter in baking dish. Mix other ingredients except peaches; pour
into butter. Pour or spoon peaches on top (include juice). Bake at 350°
for 1 hour.

**Peachy Keen Cobbler**

Recipe found in Montgomery Advertiser

2 (16oz.) cans juice-packed sliced peaches ¼ teaspoon salt

2 teaspoons cornstarch 4 tablespoons sugar

Sugar substitute to equal 4 tablespoons Few drops almond extract
(optional)

½ cup peach juice (from cans) 1 cup packaged biscuit mix

½ cup skim milk Sugar substitute to equal 2 tablespoons

1 ½ teaspoons vanilla extract ¼ teaspoon bottled lemon or orange peel

Spray a 1 ½ quart casserole with cooking spray for non-stick baking.
Arrange peach slices neatly. Combine juice with salt, cornstarch, sugar,
sugar substitute and almond and pour over peaches. In a medium bowl
combine biscuit mix, milk, sugar substitute and lemon peel. Mix well and
spread over peaches. Bake in preheated 425° oven, uncovered, for 35-40
minutes, until golden brown. Serve warm or chilled. Serves 8; 145
calories each.

**Easy Peach Cobbler**

1 cup flour 1 cup sugar

1 cup milk 1 1-pound can sliced peaches

1 stick butter Dash of cinnamon

Combine flour, sugar and milk; beat until smooth and consistency of
pancake batter. Pour into greased square baking dish. In a saucepan,
bring undrained peaches to a boil. Pour over batter; do not stir. Slice
butter over fruit; sprinkle with cinnamon. Bake at 350° for 30 minutes
or until crust rises to the top and browns. (If fresh or frozen peaches
are used in place of the canned peaches, add small amount of water and
additional 1 cup sugar and bring to a boil.)

**Peach Cobbler**

About 8 cups peeled, sliced fresh peaches 1/3 cup all-purpose flour

1 teaspoon cinnamon ½ cup butter, melted

2 cups sugar 1 cup water

1 teaspoon almond extract 3 cups all-purpose flour

¾ teaspoon baking powder 1 ½ teaspoons salt

¾ cup solid vegetable shortening 6-8 tablespoons ice water

In a large bowl, dredge peaches in 1/3 cup flour. Add next 5
ingredients. Mix well; set aside. In a separate bowl, combine 3 cups
flour, baking powder and salt. Cut in shortening with a pastry blender
until mixture resembles coarse meal. Sprinkle ice water evenly over
surface; stir with a fork until all dry ingredients are moistened. Shape
dough into a ball. On a lightly floured surface, roll ¾ of the pastry
dough into a 1/8 inch thick rectangle, big enough to fit into bottom and
up sides of a 9x13" baking dish. Spoon peach mixture into crust. Roll
remaining pastry out to a ¼ " thickness on a lightly floured surface.
Cut into ½ " wide strips. Arrange strips in lattice fashion over
peaches. Bake at 350° for 1 hour.

**Peach and Blueberry Cobbler**

1 stick butter 1 cup sugar

1 cup flour 1 cup milk

1 tablespoon baking powder ½ teaspoon salt

1 cup blueberries 3 cups peaches, sliced

Preheat oven to 350°. Melt the stick of butter in a glass dish. While
the butter is melting, mix the sugar, flour, milk, baking powder and
salt. Pour mix on top of the butter, but do not mix. Add the blueberries
and peaches on top, but do not mix. Bake in over for about 1 hour.

**Fresh Blueberry Cobbler**

Betty Crocker

½ cup sugar 1 tablespoon cornstarch

4 cups blueberries 1 teaspoon lemon juice

1 tablespoon sugar 1 ½ teaspoons baking powder

½ teaspoon salt 3 tablespoons shortening

½ cup milk Whipped cream, if desired

Heat oven to 400°. Mix ½ cup sugar and the cornstarch in 2-quart
saucepan. Stir in blueberries and lemon juice. Cook, stirring
constantly, until mixture thickens and boils. Boil and stir 1 minute.
Pour into ungreased 2-quart casserole; keep blueberry mixture hot in
oven. Mix flour 1 tablespoon sugar, the baking powder and salt in medium
bowl. Cut in shortening, using pastry blender or crisscrossing 2 knives,
until mixture looks like fine crumbs. Stir in milk. Drop dough by 6
spoonfuls onto hot blueberry mixture. Bake uncovered 25 to 30 minutes or
until topping is golden brown. Serve warm. Top with whipped cream.

**Blueberry Cobbler**

3 ½ cups fresh blueberries or 1 (1-lb.) bag 1 tablespoon cornstarch

frozen blueberries 2 tablespoons lemon juice

1 cup all-purpose flour ¾ cup sugar, divided

1 teaspoon baking powder ¼ teaspoon salt

½ cup milk 3 tablespoons butter, melted

¾ cup boiling water

Preheat oven to 350°. Spread blueberries in ungreased 8-9" square baking
dish or pan. Sprinkle with cornstarch; drizzle with lemon juice; set
aside. In medium bowl, combine flour, ½ cup of the sugar, the baking
powder and salt. Add milk and butter; stir just until combined (not
smooth). Drop 9 mounds of dough onto blueberries. Pour boiling water
over dough and fruit. Sprinkle with remaining ¼ cup sugar. Bake until
biscuits are golden brown and blueberries are bubbly, 45-50 minutes.
Serve warm or at room temperature. 8 portions.

**Blueberry Crisp**

[Filling:]{.underline}

6 cups (3 pints) fresh blueberries ½ cup sugar

1 tablespoon starch 1 teaspoon fresh lemon juice

¼ teaspoon coarse salt

[Topping:]{.underline}

¾ cup all-purpose flour ½ cup old-fashioned rolled oats

½ cup chopped nuts, almonds ½ teaspoon baking powder

½ teaspoon coarse salt 6 tablespoons butter, softened

1/3 cup sugar

Preheat oven to 375°. Make filling: mix blueberries, sugar, cornstarch,
lemon juice and salt in bowl. Transfer to 8" square baking dish.

Make topping: in medium bowl, stir together flour, oats, nuts, baking
powder and salt with electric mixer on medium speed. Cream butter and
sugar until light and fluffy. Stir flour mixture into butter. Using your
hands, squeeze topping pieces together to form clumps.

Sprinkle topping evenly over filling. Bake until filling is bubbly and
topping is golden brown about 1 hour. Transfer to a wire rack and let
cool 30 minutes before serving.

**Blueberry Crumble**

3 cups blueberries 2/3 cup sugar

Juice of 1 lemon ¼ cup butter

1 ½ teaspoon cinnamon 2/3 cup plain flour

1/8 teaspoon salt

Place berries in greased casserole. Sprinkle with lemon juice, cinnamon
and half of sugar. Blend butter, remaining sugar, flour and salt in a
crumble dough with hands. Sprinkle over berries. Bake at 350° for 30-35
minutes. Serve with cream or ice cream on top. This is delicious made
with cooked apples and fresh peaches; also with half peaches and half
blueberries. Freezes well.

**Blueberry Crunch**

1 (20-oz.) can crushed pineapple 3 cups blueberries

¾ cup sugar 1 butter or yellow cake mix

1 cup chopped pecans 1 stick butter

Pour pineapple in bottom of 13x9" pan that has been sprayed with Pam.
Layer with 3 cups blueberries. Sprinkle sugar over berries. Put dry cake
mix over top. Sprinkle with pecans. Pour melted butter over pecans.
Spray with buttery flavored spray on dry spots. Bake at 350° for 45
minutes.

**Blackberry Cobbler**

1 1/3 cups sugar ½ cup all-purpose flour

½ cup butter, melted 2 teaspoons vanilla extract

1 (14-oz.) bags frozen blackberries, unthawed ½ (15-oz.) package
refrigerated piecrusts

1 tablespoon sugar Vanilla ice cream (optional)

Sugared Piecrust Sticks (optional)\*

Stir together sugar, flour, butter and vanilla in a large bowl. Gently
stir in blackberries until sugar mixture is crumbly. Spoon fruit mixture
into a lightly greased 11x17" baking dish.

Cut 1 piecrust into ½ " wide strips diagonally over blackberry mixture.
Sprinkle top with 1 tablespoon sugar.

Bake at 425° for 45 minutes or until crust is golden brown and center is
bubbly. Serve with ice cream and Sugared Piecrust Sticks, if desired.

\*Sugared Piecrust Sticks: Cut 1 refrigerated piecrust into ½ " thick
strips. Sprinkle strips with 1 tablespoon sugar; place on a lightly
greased baking sheet. Bake at 425° for 6-8 minutes or until golden
brown.

**Strawberry Dessert #1**

Crust:

1 stick butter 1 cup all-purpose flour

¼ cup brown sugar ½ cup chopped nuts

Melt butter and mix all ingredients thoroughly. Spread in pan and bake
at 350° for 20 minutes. Cool and crumble this. Spread the filling over
and freeze.

Filling:

2 cups strawberries 2/3 to 1 cup sugar

2 egg whites 1 tablespoon lemon juice

1 teaspoon vanilla 1 small container Cool Whip

Beat egg whites until peak forms; add sugar, strawberries, lemon juice
and vanilla. Fold in Cool Whip. Spread over crumbled crust and freeze.

**Strawberry Dessert #2**

Crust:

2 cups flour 2 sticks butter

1 cup chopped pecans

Melt butter with flour; press into 9x13 pan and add and press nuts to
top. Bake at 350° until lightly brown. Cool completely.

First Layer:

1 (8-oz.) package cream cheese 3 cups confectioner's sugar

1 (12-oz.) Cool Whip

Blend softened cream cheese and sugar until smooth. Fold in Cool Whip.
Spread on cool crust.

Top Layer:

1 cup sugar 1 cup water

3 tablespoons cornstarch 2 pints strawberries, cleaned and sliced

1 (3-oz.) box strawberry Jell-O

Mix sugar, water and cornstarch in a boiler. Bring to boil; cook until
clear. Cool a little. Add

Strawberry Jell-O; cool completely. Add sliced strawberries and spread
on top. Chill

\*For this top layer, you can use a 6-oz. package of instant chocolate
pudding and make with 3 cups of milk and spread on top instead of the
strawberry mixture. In fact any flavor of instant pudding mix may be
used. Then top with a layer of Cool Whip.

**Strawberry Dessert #3**

1 (3-oz.) package strawberry Jell-O 1 cup boiling water

½ cup cool water 2 (10-oz.) packages frozen strawberries, drained

2 cups whipped cream (or 1 package Angel food cake

Dream Whip prepared) 1 cup juice from strawberries

1 tablespoon cornstarch 1 teaspoon butter

Few drops red food coloring

Mix Jell-O and boiling water; add cool water. Mix well; set aside until
set enough to whip.

Drain frozen strawberries; reserve juice. Fold into either 2 cups
whipped cream or one package of Dream Whip prepared according to
directions. Whip Jell-O; fold the strawberry mixture into this. Break an
Angel food cake into small pies and place in bottom of pan. Pour Jell-O
mixture over. Let set again.

Combine 1 cup of juice form strawberries; add cornstarch, butter and
food coloring in saucepan. Cook over medium heat until thick. Pour this
over the cake; chill.

**Strawberry Dessert**

Jo Robertson

2 Saralee 1-lb. cakes 3 (1-lb.) packages frozen strawberries, sliced

3 bananas, sliced 1 cup nuts, chopped

1 (16-oz.) Cool Whip

Break the cakes into finger-sized pieces. Layer cake, strawberries,
bananas, nuts and cool whip.

Repeat layers either one or two more times. Chill.

**Strawberry Whipped Sensation**

4 cups fresh strawberries, divided 1 can (14-oz.) Eagle Brand Sweetened
Condensed

¼ cup lemon juice Milk

1 (8-oz.) Cool Whip 8 Oreo cookies

1 tablespoon butter, melted

Line an 8x4" loaf pan with foil. Mash 2 cups strawberries in large bowl.
Stir in Eagle Brand milk, lemon juice and 2 cups Cool Whip. Pour into
pan.

Chop cookies; add butter. Press into mixture in loaf pan. Cover. Freeze
at least 6 hours. To serve revert on plate; remove foil and frost with
remaining Cool Whip.

**Berried Delight**

1 ½ cups graham cracker crumbs ¼ cup sugar

1/3 cup butter, melted 1 package (8-oz.) cream cheese

¼ cup sugar 2 tablespoons milk

3 ½ cups Cool Whip 2 pints strawberries, hulled and halved\*

2 packages (4-serving size) Jell-O 3 ½ cups cold milk

Vanilla Flavor\*

\*\*Or used 1 package (6-oz.) instant pudding and 2 ½ cups cold milk.

Combine crumbs, ¼ cup sugar and melted butter. Press firmly into a 9x13"
pan. Chill.

Beat softened cream cheese, ¼ cup sugar and 2 tablespoons milk until
smooth. Fold in ½ of the Cool Whip. Spread over cooled crust. Arrange
strawberries in even layer.

Using 3 ½ cups cold milk prepare pudding as directed on package. Pour
over berries. Chill several hours or overnight.

Shortly before serving, spread remaining Cool Whip over pudding. Garnish
with additional strawberries if desired. Chill. Makes 15 servings.

\*Use other flavor combinations; use 3 bananas **[or]{.underline}** 4
cups sliced fresh peaches **[or]{.underline}** (20-oz.) can crushed
pineapple, drained.

**Lowfat Chocolate Banana Parfaits**

2 cups cold fat free milk 1 package (4-oz.) Jell-O Chocolate Flavor Fat
Free

2 medium bananas, sliced Sugar Free Instant Reduced Calorie

¾ cup thawed Cool Whip, divided Pudding and Pie Filling

Pour milk into medium bowl. Add pudding mix. Beat with wire whisk 2
minutes or until well blended. Spoon ½ of the pudding evenly into 4
dessert glasses. Layer with banana slices, ½ cup of the whipped topping
and remaining pudding. Top with remaining whipped topping. Refrigerate
until ready to serve.

Nutrition information per serving: 160 calories; 1.5 grams total fat; 1
gram saturated fat; 390 grams sodium; 33 grams carbs.

**Citrus Delight**

Shirley Cicero

2 eggs, separated ¾ cup sugar

¼ cup flour 1 cup milk

1 tablespoon lemon juice ¾ cup orange juice

Grated lemon rind (1) 2 tablespoons melted butter

Beat egg yolks, add sugar and beat until light and fluffy. Add flour and
milk alternately. Add lemon juice, lemon rind, orange juice and melted
butter. Fold in stiffly beaten egg whites. Turn into a lightly greased
pyrex dish. Place dish in a pan of hot water and bake at 350° for 40-45
minutes or until lightly golden.

**Italian Lemon Mousse**

Pat Cliggett

4 eggs, separated ½ cup sugar

3 tablespoons lemon juice 2 teaspoons grated lemon rind

1 cup heavy cream, whipped

Beat egg yolks until they are thick and pale in color. Beat in sugar,
lemon juice and lemon rind. Cook mixture in top of double boiler,
stirring constantly, until it is thick. Cool the mixture. Fold in egg
whites, stiffly beaten and heavy cream, whipped. Pour mixture into
individual glass dishes and chill thoroughly.

**Fruit Pizza**

Jean Hill

1 packaged Sugar and Bake Pillsbury 1 (8-oz.) package cream cheese,
softened

Cookie Dough 2 cups Cool Whip (8-oz.) container

1 cup orange juice ¾ cup sugar

2 ½ tablespoons flour Optional: Top with coconut, nuts, etc.

Fruit: Strawberries, bananas, oranges, grapes, pineapple, pears, etc.
Fresh is best but not necessary

Spread cook dough onto a pizza pan; bake at 350° until golden brown.

Mix cream cheese, and Cool Whip. Spread over the cooled crust.

Prepare fruit and arrange on top of cheese mixture.

Make glaze of orange juice, sugar and flour. Heat until it thickens.
Cool and pour over fruit. Store in refrigerator. May top with coconut,
nuts, etc.

**Mud Hen**

2 sticks butter 1 cup sugar

1 ½ cups plain flour 1 teaspoon vanilla

2 egg yolks 1 teaspoon baking powder

Cream butter and sugar. Add other ingredients. Dough will be very stiff.
Pat out into a buttered pan.

Topping:

2 egg whites 1 cup brown sugar

1 cup chopped pecans

Beat egg whites until stiff; add brown sugar and pecans. Pour on top of
cake and bake at 350° for 35-40 minutes.
