---
layout: recipe
title: "Icings And Frostings"
---

# Icings And Frostings

Boiled Icing #1

Mama Franklin

2 cups sugar 1/3 cup white Karo syrup

1/3 cup water 2 egg whites

Boil sugar and water to soft ball stage. Have egg whites beaten stiffly.
Pour sugar-water hot mixture gradually over egg whites; beat as you add
it. Beat icing until stiff enough to spread and stick to cake. Can be
used on Devil\'s Food Cake, yellow cake, etc

Boiled Icing #2

2 cups sugar 2 egg whites

½ teaspoon cream tartar 1 cup water or ½ cup for marshmellows

8 marshmellows

Add sugar and water; boil until it spins a thread. Add marshmellows.
Have egg whites beaten stiff; add dream of tartar. Add cooked syrup to
egg whites.

Fluffy White Frosting

1 cup light corn syrup 2 egg whites

2 tablespoons sugar

Place the syrup in saucepan and bring to boil over medium heat. Remove
from heat and cool for 1 minutes. Place in a bowl the egg whies; beat
until frothy. Gradually add while beating 2 tablespoons of sugar. Beat
until stiff peakas form when beater is pulled up. Pour the hot corn
syrup gradually into the beaten egg whites. Beat until stiff enough to
spread on cake.

Caramel Icing

½ cup butter ¼ cup milk

1 cup brown sugar 1 ½ cup confectioners' sugar

Melt butter; add brown sugar and boil for 3-4 minutes. Add milk and mix
well; add sugar in small amounts at a time. Beat 2 minutes.

Chocolate Fudge Icing

Mama Franklin

3 cups sugar 4 tablespoons flour

3-4 tablespoons cocoa powder 1 cup milk

dash salt 2 tablespoons butter

3 tablespons white Karo syrup 1 teaspoon vanilla

Mix ingredients, except vanilla, well; let boil until it bubbles and
cook real slow until soft ball stage. Remove and add vanilla. Beat until
creamy. Spread on cool cake layers (yellow).

I found another recipe for Chocolate Cake Icing which had the same
ingredients as this one except it called for ½ stick (4 tablespoons)
butter instead of 2. Also the vanilla was added after the icing cooled.

Iron Skillet Chocolate Icing

(This is for the Thin-Layer 15 Layer Cake)

3 tablespoons cocoa (use more if desired) 3 cups sugar

¼ teaspoon salt 1 (5-oz.) can evaporated milk

2 eggs, well beaten 1 ½ sticks butter

1 tablespoo white syrup 1 teaspoon vanilla

Mix together cocoa, sugar and salt in a bowl. Place well-beaten eggs in
iron skillet. Mix in dry ingredients. Add milk, butter, syrup and
vanilla. Turn heat on mediium and cook mixture slowly, stirring
constantly until it begins to boil and sugar is dissolved. Mixture will
be quite thin\...but eventually will thicken and harden.

Spread icing on each layer (1/4 cup per layer). When you reach the top
layer, beat the remainder of the icing with the mixer. Then frost the
top and sides of the cake.

Chocolate-Caramel Fondue

1 (14-oz.) can sweetened condensed milk 1 (12 & 1/4-oz.) jar caramel ice
cream topping

3 (1-oz.) squares unsweetened chocolate,

chopped

Dippers: cookies, fruit slices, berries, pound cake squares, angel food
cake pieces and/or apicots.

Inmedium saucepan, combine sweetened condensed milk, caramel topping and
chocolate. Cook and stir over low heat until chocolate melts. Pour into
serving bowl or individual cups. Serve with desired dippers. Makes 2-1/2
cups.

Coconut Cake Frosting

Pat Hill

1 tablespoon, heaping solid crisco 1 teaspoon coconut flavoring

½ cup sweet milk, heated 1 ½ lbs. Confectioner\'s sugar, sifted

1 package coconut

Beat crisco until smooth. Gradually add sugar to crisco mixture.
Alternate milk and sugar until all used. Add flavoring and mix. Frost
cake layers and add coconut to frosting.

Use Duncan Hines Moist Deluxe Butter Golden Recipe Cake Mix for cake;
ice wth this frosting.

Coconut-Pecan Filling

1 cup sugar 1 cup whipping cream

3 egg yolks ½ cup butter

1 teaspoon vanilla 1 ½ cups sweetened flaked coconut

1 cup chopped pecans, toasted

Combine sugar, whipping cream, egg yolks and butter; cook over medium
heat, stirring constantly, 8-10 minutes or until thickened. Remove from
heat, and stir in vanilla Stir in coconut and pecans, and let cool
completely. This filling is used for German Chocolate Cake, as well as
other cakes.

Coconut Chocolate Frosting

1 (16-oz.) package powdered sugar 1 cup chopped pecans

1 cup shredded coconut 1/3 cup plus 2 teaspoons milk

½ cup butter 3 tablespoons cocoa

Combine sugar, pecans and coconut in a large mixing bowl; set aside.
Combine milk, butter and cocoa in a small saucepan; cook over low heat,
stirring until mixture comes to a boil. Add chocolate mixture to sugar
mixture; beat with an electric mixer until frosting is fluffy. Yields
enough for one 13x9" cake.

Cream Cheese Frosting

1 (8-oz.) package cream cheese, softened 1 box powdered sugar, sifted

1 stick butter,softened 1 ½ cups chopped pecans

Mix cream cheese, sugar and butter; mix well with electric mixer. Add
pecans, blend well.

Hot Chocolate Sauce

¾ cup sugar ¼ cup butter

2 envelopes (2-oz.) Nestle Choco-Bake ¼ cup heavy cream

2 tablespoons light corn syrup Dash salt

2 teaspoons vanilla

In small saucepan, combine sugar, butter, Nestle Choco-Bake, heavy
cream, corn syrup and salt; mix well. Cook over moderate heat, stirring
constantly. *Bring just to a boil*, stirring constantly. Remove from
heat; stir in vanilla Serve warm over ice cream or cake. Makes 1-1/2
cups sauce.

Lane Cake Frosting

Mama Franklin

6 egg yolks 2 cups sugar

1 ½ cups milk 2 tablespoons flour

2 cups pecans 2 cups raisins

2 cups coconut

Cook egg yolks, sugar, milk and flour until mixture comes to boil; lower
heat and cook mix more minutes. Add pecans, raisins and coconut; let
cool. Ice white layer cakes for Lane Cake.

(My mother liked her filling/frosting for lane cake to be ground. Grind
the pecans, raisins and coconut; add to other mixture after it comes to
boil.)

Lemon Cheese Filling

Mama Franklin

2 egg yolks 1 cup sugar

3 tablespoons flour Juice and sext of 2 lemons

1 cup hot water ½ stick butter

Mix sugar and flour. Add lemon juice and zest and beat thoroughly. Add
egg yolks and beat. Add water and butter. Cook in double boiler until
thick. Cool and spread over cake layers (white or yellow).

Peanut Butter Frosting

½ cup peanut butter 1 lb. Confectioner\'s sugar

7-8 tablespoons milk 1 teaspoon vanilla

Blend 1/3 sugar and peanut butter. Alternatly add remainder of sugar and
milk. Add vanilla. Yield: frosting for two 9\" round layers.

Pineapple Cake Filling

Rolena Prescott

3 cups sugar 1 large can crushed pineapple and juice

1 large can carnation milk 2-3 tablespoons cornstarch

1 tablespooon butter

Mix all ingredients and cook until thick enough to put on cake.

Pineapple-Caramel Filling

Mama Franklin

3 cups sugar ½ cup plain flour

1 small can crushed pineapple, drained Juice from small can pineapple

¾ cup Pet milk ½ cup water

½ stick butter

Mix flour and sugar, juice well; add milk and butter in saucepan with
sugar mixture; boil until soft boil. Whip after taking off stove until
creamy. Spread over cake layers (yellow cake). After spreading filling
over each layer, spread drained crushed pineapple into icing; repeat for
each layer and sides of cake

Pineapple-Caramel Filling #2

Mama Franklin

3 cups sugar ½ cup pineapple juice

1 cup milk ¼ stick butter

1 small can crushed pineapple, drained

Put ingredients in saucepan and boil until soft boil. Whip after taking
off stove until creamy. Spread over layrs; then spread crushed pineapple

Royal Icing

3 cups confectioner\'s sugar, sifted 2 tablespoons powdered egg whites,

2 tablespoons *cool* water (in baking section of store)

In medium bowl, add sugar, powdered egg whites and 2 tablespoons cool
water. Beat on high with electric mixer 5 minutes. Add more water as
needed for piping consistency Divide in 1/2, transfer one half to pastry
bag fitted with small writing tip Thin remaining half with little water
to make base coat Spread some of the cookies with thinned icing. Let dry
for one hour before using other half for writing or decorating.

Caramel Fudge Frosting

> Marian Parker

Stir together in large pan! (Dutch Oven?):

2 cups granulated sugar 1 cup buttermilk

1 teaspoon soda ¼ teaspoon salt

1 cup butter

Bring to a boil, stirring until a smooth consistency. Slow heat to
medium and cook until a small drop into water can be rolled with fingers
into a ball. Remove from heat. Add ½ teaspon vanilla and ½ teaspoon
almond extract. Beat with wooden spoon until of spreading consistency.

Comments: A hand mixer helps. Do not over beat or frosing witll harden
before you finish the spreading. Watch closely during cooking for a loss
of shinie, then begin to spread. If hardness begins, add a small amount
of hot, boiling water and stir well. Then, continue spreading.

The amount of batter in my yellow cake recipe makes enough for three
layers. This frosting does the top and sides. I like to frost top, sides
and between layers. Amount does well for a sheet cake top and sides.
Also I double sometimes. An adaptable recipe.

Caramel Nut Filling

2 ½ cups white sugar 1 ½ cup milk (cream preferred)

½ cup caramael syrup (1/2 cup sugar) 1 tablespoon butter

1 cup mik 1 teaspoon vanilla

1 cup chopped pecans

Combine milk and 2 ½ cups sugar and cook. Place the ½ cup sugar in
skillet and cook. When both mixtures are boilinhg, combine and cook
until a soft ball forms when dropped in water. Remove from fire; add
butter and vanilla. Beat until creamy; add nuts.

Hot Chocolate Sauce

¾ cup sugar ¼ cup butter

2 envelopes (1-oz.) Nestle Choco-Bake ¼ cup heavy cream

2 tablespoons light corn syrup Dash Salt

2 teaspoons vanilla

In small saucepan, combine sugar, butter, Choco-Bake, heavy cream, corn
syrup and salt; mix well. Cook over moderate heat, stirring constantly.
Bring just to a boil; stirring constantly. Remove from heat; stir in
vanilla. Serve warm over ice cream or cake. Makes 1 ¼ cups sauce.

Tips for Frosting, Icing, Etc.

Cake Mix Doctor Ann Byrn says you\'ll never run out of frosting as long
as you have:

- At least 1 cup of frosting for every 12 cupcakes.
- 1-1/2 to 2 cupus of frosting to cover the top of a cake in a 13x9\"
  pan.
- 1-1/2 cups of frosting to glaze a Bundt or tube pan -- 2-1/2 to 3 cups
  of frosting to frost the top and side of a cake from a 13x9\" pan; and
- 3 to 4 cups of frosting for a 2- or 3-layer 9\" cake or to
  completelycover a Bundt or tube pan cake.

And since her first cookbook, Byrn has picked up some great tips from
readers and other sources. Here are some of the baking essentials she\'s
learned:

- Most ckes call for vegetable oil. But if they call for butter, use
  unsalted butter in the cake and lightly salted butter in the frosting
- If youo don\'t grease the sides of your layer pans, you will have a
  slightly taller cake.
- Don\'t throw away a cake that falls. Crumble it into wine glasses, Add
  little juice and scoop of vanilla ice cream.
