---
layout: recipe
title: "Introduction"
---

# Introduction

**DEDICATION**

This recipe book contains all the loose recipes that I have collected
during the past 50 years of our marriage. They have come from family,
friends, co-workers, magazines and newspaper clippings and, labels from
foods. I received my first recipes from my grandmother -- Mama Franklin.
It is to her in her memory I dedicate this book of recipes. She not only
taught me most of what I know about cooking, but through her example,
she instilled in me a love of cooking.

Mary Kate Blue Franklin was born on March 4, 1906. Her mother died
during her childbirth and left her father to raise her. She shared with
me many of her memories from those years growing up without a mother and
trying to help her daddy with the work. He made a living as a farmer,
but they were blessed to live near her mother's sisters and aunts. Those
ladies helped to mold her into the wonderful Southern lady who she was.
One of her earliest memories of cooking was when she was five-years-old
and her daddy made her a wooden block to stand on to reach the eyes of
the wood stove. She cooked their breakfast before he left to go to the
fields to farm. She had lunch ready for him when he came home from the
fields and supper when he came in at the end of the day. When she
started to school, she was blessed to live across the road from school.
Her teachers knew how she did the cooking for her and her daddy and
allowed her to leave school each day early enough to go home and prepare
their lunch. Then after they ate, she walked back to school to finish
her school work.

Although she only attended school through the eighth grade, she was one
of the smartest ladies I have ever known -- maybe not so much in book
knowledge, but she learned volumes of life knowledge. At the end of her
eighth grade, her daddy remarried and moved them to another part of the
county. She continued to spend the majority of her time with her aunts,
helping them take care of their children and grandchildren and learning
more about cooking. By the time she was fifteen years old, she had met
my granddaddy and they were soon married. They had two children, my
mother Mary Frances and my uncle Joe (Pete).

Through her life she was always the one who seemed to take charge and
make the decisions. It never seemed to bother my grandfather. Mama
always used her cooking skills to help them make a living. In the
mid-fifties, the town of Luverne had a gas line put in. At that time
there were no real restaurants in town. My grandmother opened up her
home for any or all the workers to come to her house at lunch and supper
and eat. Everyday her dining table was filled with bowls and platters of
homemade and home-cooked food. When the workers finished their pipe-line
job, they moved on to their next work. But this experience left Mama
Franklin with an "itch" to cook for people and watch them enjoy her
cooking.

She rented a café on the main street in town; (ironically it belonged to
Sam's mother, given to her by her daddy). The main menu consisted of
hamburgers , hotdogs and sandwiches. She loved not only the cooking, but
seeing and talking and laughing with those who came into the café. When
a restaurant opened at the edge of town, she rented that so she could
prepare the kinds of food she had always cooked, i.e. fried chicken, all
kinds of fresh vegetables and wonderful homemade desserts. I helped her
after school, on holidays and week-ends from the time I was 13 until I
was 21. I remember that you could get a meat, three vegetables, bread
and coffee or tea for 65¢ and a piece of homemade pie for another 15¢.
Mama wasn't a very good business woman, but she sure could cook.

She was happiest when she had her family sit down and eat one of her
meals. I guess that is another trait I inherited from her. One of the
biggest differences between us was that I have hundreds and hundreds of
recipes that I have collected over the years in addition to dozens of
published cookbooks. Mama never had a cookbook when I was growing up.
The only recipes she had were those on the sides of ingredients she
might buy. Somehow she always knew exactly what to add to make a
delicious dish. I hope that you enjoy trying some of the recipes in this
book and think of the joy I have when I, too, prepare a dish for my
family!

I love you,

Lou
