---
layout: recipe
title: "Meats"
category: "Main Courses"
---

# Meats

**Foolproof Swiss steak**

2 tablespoons flour 2 cans (14 ½ oz.) Italian stewed tomatoes

2 teaspoons sugar 1 teaspoon prepared mustard

½ teaspoon salt ¼ teaspoon pepper

1--1 ½ lbs. boneless beef round steak

(½ " thick)

Preheat oven to 350°. Add flour to large oven bag (14x20"); place in
13x9x2" baking pan. Add tomatoes, sugar, mustard, salt and pepper to
oven bag; stir to blend in flour. Pound beef to 1/8 to 1/4" thickness,
using a meat mallet or rolling pin. Cut beef in 4 pieces. Arrange beef
in an even layer in oven bag; spoon sauce over beef. Bake 45-50 minutes
or until beef is tender. Makes 4 servings.

**Texas Brisket**

1 brisket, 4-5 pounds 2 teaspoons meat tenderizer

Liquid smoke, to cover about 2 oz. 1 teaspoon celery salt

1 teaspoon paprika ¼ teaspoon nutmeg

¼ teaspoon garlic powder 1 teaspoon onion salt

1 tablespoon brown sugar

Sprinkle brisket with meat tenderizer; cover with liquid smoke.
Refrigerate overnight, wrapped in heavy aluminum foil. The next day,
sprinkle brisket with mixture of remaining ingredients. Wrap tightly in
heavy foil. Bake 2 hours at 300°. Loosen foil a little, and bake 5 hours
at 200°. Do not open foil to check meat. After 5 hours, remove meat from
pan, and set aside 1 hour before slicing. Strain grease from pan juices
(or chill in freezer for easy removal). Slice brisket very thin across
the grain. Serve with hot, degreased liquid and bottled barbecued sauce
mixture.

**Swiss Steak with Vegetables**

> Olivet Willis

1 ½ lbs. round steak (about ½ "thick) Flour

Salt and pepper 1 onion, sliced

2 tablespoons butter 1 can (1 lb.) tomatoes

1 clove garlic, minced 4 medium potatoes, halved

1 can (1 lb.) green beans

Dredge steak with flour and pound with dull edge of heavy knife.
Sprinkle with salt and pepper. Cook onion in butter 5 minutes. Push to
side of skillet and brown steak. Add tomatoes and garlic; cover and cook
slowly ¾ hour. Add potatoes and beans and cook ¾ hour longer, or until
all are tender. Makes 4 servings.

**Stuffed Steak**

**(Oven-Broiled)**

3 lbs. top round of beef in 1 slice, Instant meat tenderizer

1 ½ "thick 1 small garlic clove, minced

1 small onion, sliced thin 1 small green pepper, slivered

2 tablespoons butter 1 can (10 ½ oz.) cream of celery soup, undiluted

1 can (3-oz.) sliced broiled mushrooms 2 tablespoons sliced stuffed
olives

½ cup packaged bread stuffing 1 tablespoon minced pimento

Few grains, coarsely ground pepper

Cut beef in half, crosswise, to make 2 slices, each 1 1/2" thick. Treat
with instant meat tenderizer as directed on label. Cook garlic, onion
and green pepper in butter until soft but not brown. Blend in soup.
Drain mushrooms; add with olives, pimento, bread stuffing and pepper.
Heat to boiling. Remove from heat; cool slightly. Spread between steak
slices. Fasten with skewers. Place on rack in shallow roasting pan.
Roast at 450° for 15 minutes; lower heat to 350°. Roast 30 minutes
longer (medium-rare); 10 more minutes for well-done. 6-8 servings.

**Steak and Bacon Tournedos**

> Olivet Willis

1-1 ½ lbs. flank steak Instant non-seasoned meat tenderizer

½ lb. bacon 1 teaspoon garlic salt

½ teaspoon freshly ground pepper 2 tablespoons parsley

1 ¾ oz. envelope Hollandaise Sauce ¼ teaspoon tarragon

Pound steak to even thickness, about ½" thick. Use meat tenderizer
according to directions. Meanwhile, cook bacon until almost done but not
crisp. Sprinkle flank steak with garlic salt and pepper. Score steak
diagonally making diamond-shaped buts. Place bacon strips lengthwise on
flank steak. Sprinkle with parsley. Roll up jelly-roll fashion, starting
at narrow end. Skewer with wooden picks at 1" intervals. Cut in 1"
slices with serrated knife. Grill over medium coals 15 minutes, turning
once for rare.

Meanwhile, in saucepan, prepare hollandaise sauce mix according to
package directions, adding the tarragon to the dry mix. Serve sauce with
flank steaks. Makes 4 servings, 2 pinwheel steaks each. (Olivet: I
haven't used the sauce with the steaks; we like it plain.)

**Stew Beef**

> Olivet Willis

1 lb. stew meat 1 package Lipton's Onion Soup Mix

½ cup water, more if desired

Pour soup mix over meat. Add water. Cook in 350° oven 1 hour or until
done. Serve over rice or noodles. Thicken gravy with flour, if too thin.

**Pepper Steak**

1 ¼ lbs. beef top round or sirloin steak, ¼ cup vegetable oil

about 1" thick 1 cup water

1 medium onion, cut into ¼" slices ½ teaspoon garlic salt

¼ teaspoon ground ginger 2 medium green peppers, cut into ¾" wide strips

Uncooked instant rice 1 tablespoon cornstarch

2-3 teaspoons sugar, optional 2 tablespoons soy sauce

2 medium tomatoes

Trim fat from beef; cut beef into strips, 2x1x¼". Heat oil in large
skillet. Add beef; cook turning frequently, until brown, about 5
minutes. Stir in water, onion, garlic salt and ginger. Heat to boiling;
reduce heat. Cover and simmer 12-15 minutes for round steak, 5-8 minutes
for sirloin. Add green pepper strips during last 5 minutes of simmering.
While beef simmers, cook instant rice as directed on package for 4
servings.

Blend cornstarch, sugar and soy sauce; stir into beef mixture. Cook,
stirring constantly, until mixture thickens and boils. Boil and stir 1
minute. Cut each tomato into eighths and place on beef mixture. Cover;
cook over low heat just until tomatoes are heated through, about 3
minutes. Serve over rice. 4 servings; 760 calories per serving.

**Boneless Chuck Roast**

> Julia Ann Snider

1 chuck roast Garlic Powder

Lemon Pepper French's Prepared Mustard

Dale's Steak Sauce

Rub roast with all ingredients. Bake uncovered 5 hours at 250°.

**Beef Stroganoff**

> Tanya Branch

1 lb. ground chuck 3 tablespoons Lipton's onion soup mix

1 can cream of mushroom soup 1 can cream of chicken soup

1 can sliced and drained mushrooms ½ cup sour cream

Brown beef until done. Add onion soup mix; add mushrooms and soups.
Simmer 15 minutes. Add sour cream immediately before serving. Serve over
rice, Chinese noodles, or bread. Makes 7-8 servings.

**Meat Loaf**

2 lbs. ground beef 1 cup bread crumbs

8 tablespoons onion 6 tablespoons green pepper

¼ cup milk 2 eggs, beaten

2 teaspoons Worcestershire sauce 2 ½ teaspoons salt

½ teaspoon pepper ¼ cup catsup

Soak bread crumbs in milk. Add and mix all ingredients. Bake at 350° for
45 minutes -- 1 hour, until done. Add BBQ Sauce during last 5-10
minutes.

*[BBQ Sauce]{.underline}*:

3 tablespoons onion 2 tablespoons butter

½ cup catsup 2 tablespoons cider vinegar

1 tablespoon brown sugar 1 teaspoon prepared mustard

1 tablespoon Worcestershire sauce ¼ teaspoon salt

Mix all ingredients and simmer 5 minutes. Add to top of cooked meat
loaf. Return to oven 5-10 minutes.

**Congealed Meat Loaf**

> Louise Windham

1 lb. beef, good grade 1 lb. pork (like lean pork chops)

1 can pimento, with juice ½ cup sweet pickle relish with juice

½ cup Durkee's Salad dressing ½ cup mayonnaise

5 slices toasted bread (no butter) 1 package (3-oz.) lemon Jell-O

2/3 cup beef broth

Cover with water and cook beef and pork (separately) until done and very
tender. Reserve beef broth to use in Jell-O. Dissolve Jell-O in 2/3 cup
beef broth. Grind pork, beef, pimento and bread. Add other ingredients.
Add Jell-O and broth. Mix well; make into loaf or in 7x11" casserole;
pressed in pan. Refrigerate. This lasts several days. Slice or cut in
wedge.

This may not sound good, but it is delicious; especially in the summer
to have with cool vegetables. This was one of Eze's favorite dishes to
make.

**Old-Fashioned Italian Meatballs**

1 medium egg ¼ cup milk

1/3 cup dry breadcrumbs 1 package (16-oz.) Italian Ground Sausage

2 tablespoons olive oil

In a large bowl, combine the egg, milk and breadcrumbs. Let stand for
3-4 minutes or until liquid is absorbed. Add sausage; mix well. Shape
into meatballs. In a large skillet, sauté meatballs in olive oil until
golden brown and no longer pink.

**Chinese Steak**

> Duanne Namasky

Round steak, cut in strips 1 Onion, sliced

1 Bell Pepper, sliced 2 stalks celery, sliced

1 can beef consommé 1 jar mushrooms, drained

1 can water chestnuts, drained 1 can tomatoes

2 tablespoons cornstarch ¼ cup water

3 tablespoons soy sauce 2 tablespoons molasses

Brown steak in oil until no longer pink; add all vegetables and cook
until vegetables are tender. Mix cornstarch, water, soy sauce and
molasses. Add to steak and vegetables. Simmer 10-15 minutes. Serve over
rice, noodles, etc.

**Cuban Picadillo**

2 pounds ground beef ¼ cup olive oil, divided

1 cup diced sweet onions 1 green pepper, diced

1 tablespoon chopped garlic 1 (15-oz.) can tomato sauce

2 teaspoons ground cumin 2 teaspoons dried oregano

½ cup raisins ½ cup chopped pimiento-stuffed olives

2 tablespoons red wine vinegar Salt and pepper to taste

In large skillet, brown beef in 2 tablespoons olive oil over high heat;
drain and reserve. In same skillet, lightly brown onion, pepper and
garlic in remaining oil. Add sauce, cumin and oregano; bring to a boil.
Reduce heat and simmer 20 minutes, stirring occasionally; add olives and
season to taste with salt and pepper. Bring back to boil; simmer 10
minutes. You can serve over steamed rice with sautéed slice ripe
plantains and black beans.

**Hamburger Corn Pone Pie**

1 lb. ground beef 1/3 cup chopped onions

1 tablespoon oil ¾ teaspoon salt

¾ teaspoon Worcestershire sauce 1 can tomatoes

1 can drained kidney beans 1 cup corn bread batter, your favorite

Brown meat and onion in shortening. Add seasoning and tomatoes. Cover
and simmer over low heat for 15 minutes; then add kidney beans. Pour
meat mixture into a greased casserole (1 to 1 ½ quarts). Top with corn
bread batter (use your favorite recipe), spreading carefully with wet
knife. Bake in hot over 425° for 20 minutes.

**Enchiladas #1**

1 lb. ground beef ½ teaspoon salt

1 cup chopped onion 1 cup chopped green olives

Cheese Sauce, recipe below 1 dozen corn tortillas

1 cup grated cheddar cheese

Brown beef. Stir in salt, onions and olives. Set aside. Make sauce; dip
each tortilla into hot sauce until soft enough to roll without breaking.
Fill each tortilla with meat mixture; roll and place top side down in
baking pan. Pour remaining sauce over top and sprinkle with cheese. Bake
at 350° for 30 minutes. Makes 4-6 servings.

*[Cheese Sauce]{.underline}*:

1 cup grated cheese 1 can tomato sauce

1 can tomato paste 1 can tomato soup, undiluted

2 cups water ½ cup salad oil

2 tablespoons chili powder 1 teaspoon garlic powder

½ teaspoon salt

Combine sauce ingredients and simmer 20 minutes.

**Enchiladas #2**

1 lb. ground beef ½ teaspoon salt

1 cup chopped onion 1 cup chopped green olives

1 cup grated cheddar cheese 2 cans tomato sauce

1 can tomato paste 1 can condensed tomato soup

2 cups water ½ cup salad oil

2 tablespoons chili powder 1 teaspoon garlic powder

½ teaspoon salt 12 corn tortillas

Extra cheddar cheese

Brown beef; stir in onions and olives. Set aside. Combine 1 cup cheddar
cheese, tomato paste and sauce, water, oil, chili powder, garlic powder
and salt and simmer 20 minutes. Dip each tortilla into hot sauce until
soft enough to roll without breaking. Fill each tortilla with meat
mixture; roll and place topside down in baking pan. Pour remaining sauce
over and sprinkle with cheese. Bake at 350° for 30 minutes. Makes 4-5
servings.

**Enchiladas #3**

1 lb. ground beef 1 can tomatoes

1 can enchilada sauce 8-12 corn tortillas (frozen)

1 -- 2 cups Cheddar cheese

Brown beef; add tomatoes and ¾ can enchilada sauce. Cook 15-20 minutes.
Put browned beef sauce in thawed tortillas. Add cheese; roll. Line
greased pan with stuffed tortillas, seam side down. Pour remaining sauce
over; sprinkle generously with cheese. Bake 20-30 minutes at 350°.

**Mom's Beef Enchiladas**

> Mary Jo Maxwell

2 lbs. ground beef 2 teaspoons chili powder

Salt and pepper to taste 1 small can green chilies

1 can cream of chicken soup 1 can cream of mushroom soup

10-oz. can enchilada sauce 12 flour tortillas (7-8")

2 cups grated cheddar cheese

Butter 9x13 casserole dish. Preheat oven to 350° Brown meat and drain.
Add chili powder, salt, pepper and chilies. Mix soups and enchilada
sauce in pan and heat until well-blended. Add 1 ½ cups of soup mixture
to beef. Layer 4 tortillas flat in bottom of dish, overlapping. Spread
beef mixture. Layer 4 more tortillas over beef. Top with soup mixture.
Top with remaining tortillas. Then top with grated cheese. Bake 30
minutes until bubbly.

**Cheese Enchiladas**

> Olivet Willis

2 green peppers, chopped 2 onions, chopped

3 tablespoons salad oil 2 small cans (6-oz. each) mild enchilada sauce

12 corn tortillas 1 cup sour cream

2 cups cheddar cheese, shredded 1 lb. Monterey Jack cheese, cut in
strips

Sauté peppers and onions in oil until tender. Set aside. Blend enchilada
sauce with sour cream in skillet to simmering point. Dip each tortilla
in sauce. Put in each tortilla ½ of the pepper, onion and Monterey Jack
cheese and roll. Place in baking dish, seam side down. Pour remaining
sauce over all and top with cheddar cheese. Bake at 375° for 25 minutes.
Let stand 10-15 minutes before serving or they will fall apart. Serves
4-5.

**[Beef Enchiladas]{.underline}**: For variety, substitute 1 lb. ground
beef, cooked and drained, for Monterey Jack Cheese.

**Enchilada Casserole**

1 pound ground chuck 1 medium onion, chopped

2 (8-oz.) cans tomato sauce 1 (11-oz.) can Mexicorn, drained

1 (10-oz.) can enchilada sauce 1 teaspoon chili powder

½ teaspoon dried oregano ½ teaspoon pepper

¼ teaspoon salt 1 (6 ½ -oz.) package corn tortillas, divided

2 cups (8-oz.) shredded Cheddar cheese, divided

Cook beef and onion in a large skillet until beef is browned, stirring
until it crumbles; drain. Stir tomato sauce and rest of ingredients,
except tortillas and cheddar cheese; bring to a boil. Reduce to medium,
and cook, uncovered, 5 minutes, stirring occasionally.

Place half of tortillas in bottom of a greased 13x9x2" baking dish.
Spoon half of beef mixture over tortillas; sprinkle with 1 cup cheese.
Repeat layers with remaining tortillas and beef mixture. Bake at 375°
for 10 minutes. Sprinkle with remaining cheese; bake 5 additional
minutes or until cheese melts. Yields: 8 servings.

If this is made ahead of time and refrigerated, it may require longer
baking time to adjust to cold temperature of casserole.

**Mexican Dinner**

Fritos 1 box minute rice

2 heads of lettuce ½ tomato per person, chopped

3 lbs. meat 2 packages chili-o chili powder mix

2 large onions, chopped 1 large can tomatoes

Pepper to taste Garlic salt to taste

2 cans cheese soup ½ cup milk

Chopped onions Chopped pecans or peanuts

Large jar chopped olives, green Taco Sauce

This recipe makes lots -- probably enough for 12 people. You can adjust
amounts of ingredients depending on size of group you are serving.

Make chili by browning ground beef and draining. Add chili-o mix,
onions, canned tomatoes, pepper and garlic. Cook until chili has
consistency and doneness desired. Make Cheese sauce by combining cheese
soup and milk. Heat through and keep warm. Cook rice according to
package directions. Shred lettuce.

To serve: Place ingredients in this order:

> Cooked Rice, Chili, Fritos (they can really be put anywhere -- they
> are good added here or at end of assembly, Cheese sauce, Chopped
> Onions, Chopped nuts, Chopped olives,

Taco Sauce, More Fritos

Each person assembles his/her dinner on a plate or shallow bowl as
desired. This combination is delicious together and lots of fun for a
big party. You can make the chili ahead, shred the lettuce, and chop all
ingredients to be chopped. Cooking the rice, making the cheese sauce and
heating the chili is all that is left to do at last minute.

**Easy Lasagna**

1 lb. ground beef 2 cups (30-oz. jar) spaghetti sauce

1 ½ cups water 1 ¾ cups (15-oz. container) ricotta cheese

2 cups (8-oz.) Monterey Jack Cheese, ½ cup grated Parmesan cheese

Or Mozzarella, divided 2 eggs

½ teaspoon salt ¼ cup chopped fresh parsley

¼ teaspoon black pepper 1 package (8-oz.) Skinner Lasagna, uncooked

Heat oven to 350°. In a 3-quart saucepan, brown meat; drain. Add
spaghetti sauce and water; simmer about 10 minutes. In bowl, stir
together ricotta, one-half of mozzarella cheese, Parmesan cheese, eggs,
parsley, salt and pepper. Pour about 1 cup sauce on bottom of 13x9"
baking dish. Arrange 3 [uncooked]{.underline} pasta pieces lengthwise
over sauce; cover with about 1 cup sauce. Spread one-half cheese filling
over sauce. Repeat layers of lasagna, sauce and cheese filling. Top with
layer of lasagna and remaining sauce; sprinkle with remaining Mozzarella
cheese. Cover with foil. Bake 45 minutes. Remove foil; bake additional
15 minutes. Let stand 10 minutes before cutting. 10-12 servings.

Alternate Method: Recipe can be prepared with COOKED noodles following
same instructions. OMIT ADDITION OF 1 ½ CUPS WATER TO SPAGHETTI SAUCE.

**Lasagna**

> C. J. Savage

1 lb. ground round 1-2 cloves minced garlic

1 tablespoon basil 1 ½ teaspoons salt

1 lb. can tomatoes 2 (6-oz. each) cans tomato paste

10-oz. lasagna noodles, cooked 3 cups ricotta or creamy cottage cheese

½ cup grated Parmesan cheese 2 tablespoons parsley

2 eggs, beaten 2 teaspoons salt

½ teaspoon pepper 1 lb. Mozzarella cheese, sliced thin

Brown and drain meat; add garlic, basil, and salt, tomatoes and tomato
paste and simmer 30 minutes, stirring occasionally. Cook noodles and
drain. In large bowl mix ricotta cheese, parmesan cheese, parsley,
beaten eggs, salt and pepper.

Place ½ noodles in 13x9x2" dish. Spread ½ cheese mixture, cover with
mozzarella slices and ½ meat sauce. Repeat layers. Bake at 375° for 30
minutes. Let stand 10 minutes before cutting.

**Lasagna**

> Ruth Stinson

1 lb. ground beef ½ cup chopped onions

2 cans pizza sauce (Chef Boyardee) 1 teaspoon garlic salt

½ teaspoon oregano 1 carton ricotta cheese

2 packages Mozzarella cheese ¾ cup parmesan cheese

1 can tomato paste 8 oz. lasagna noodles

Cook lasagna noodles according to package directions. Brown beef with
onions; drain. Add 1 can pizza sauce, tomato paste, garlic salt and
oregano. In 9x13 greased baking dish, put one layer of lasagna noodles.
Cover with ½ beef mixture. Use ½ of cheeses. Then do another layer of
noodles, remainder of ground beef mixture, another can of pizza sauce
and remainder of cheeses. Bake at 350° for 30 minutes. Let stand 10
minutes before cutting.

**Mexican Lasagna**

> Mary Jo Maxwell

1 ½ lb. ground beef 1 ½ teaspoons ground cumin

1 tablespoon chili powder ¼ cup garlic powder

¼ teaspoon red pepper 1 teaspoon salt

1 teaspoon pepper 16-oz. chopped tomatoes, canned

10-12 corn tortillas 2 cups small-curd cottage cheese, drained

1 cup grated Monterey Jack cheese with 1 egg

peppers ½ cup grated cheddar cheese

3 cups shredded lettuce ½ cup chopped tomatoes

3 green onions, chopped ¼ cup sliced black olives

Brown beef and drain. Add cumin, chili powder, garlic powder, red
pepper, salt, pepper and tomatoes and heat. Cover bottom and sides of
13x9" baking casserole dish with tortillas. Pour beef mixture over
tortillas. Place a layer of tortillas over meat mixture and set aside.
Mix cottage cheese, Monterey cheese and eggs. Pour over tortilla. Bake
at 350° for 30 minutes. Remove, sprinkle cheddar cheese over top and
decorate with remaining ingredients.

**Spaghetti Meat Sauce**

Ginger Willcoxon -- Trinity's Cookbook, Spring 2008

1 lb. lean ground beef 1 small onion, chopped

2 (15-oz.) cans tomato sauce 1 (14.5-oz.) can diced tomatoes

1 teaspoon dried basil 1 teaspoon dried oregano

1-2 cloves garlic, minced\* 1 tablespoon olive oil

3 tablespoons brown sugar 1 ½ tablespoon vinegar\*\*

Brown ground beef with onion in large skillet; drain. Stir in remaining
ingredients. Blend well. Simmer over medium-low heat 15 minutes\*\*\*,
or until heated through. Serve over spaghetti.

*[This is one of my favorite recipes for sauce but, I
(Lou)]{.underline}*

\*use garlic salt instead of minced garlic; \*\*add vinegar and \*\*\*
cook it on low heat at least 1 hr.

**Heloise's Original Italian Spaghetti Sauce**

¼ cup olive oil ½ cup butter

1 cup finely chopped onions 1 cup finely chopped onions

1 pound ground beef 4 strips finely chopped bacon

4 cloves garlic, chopped fine 3 tablespoons finely chopped fresh parsley

1 bay leaf, chopped fine 1 tablespoon salt

Black pepper, to taste 1 teaspoon crushed dry red pepper

2 oz. red wine 2 (15-oz.) cans of whole tomatoes or tomato sauce

1 small can tomato paste 1 cup water

1 finely chopped (or grated) carrot

Heat the olive oil over low heat in a large pot. (Note: you will be
adding all the other ingredients to this pot.) Add the butter and simmer
until it melts. Add onions and sauté until a light brown color. Add the
ground beef and bacon, and continue sautéing until browned. Be sure to
stir occasionally.

Add garlic, parsley, bay leaf, salt, black pepper and red pepper. For 10
minutes, continue to cook over low heat. Add wine, cover and let sit a
few minutes.

Add tomatoes or sauce, paste and water. Bring to boil. Add chopped
carrot. Cover and cook for an hour, stirring occasionally over low heat.
Now cook up your favorite pasta, and serve with this sauce.

**Spaghetti Sauce**

2 lbs. ground beef 2 cloves garlic

1 onion, chopped 2 stalks celery, sliced

Large can tomatoes 1 large can tomato paste

1 cup water 2 bay leaves

1 teaspoon oregano 1 tablespoon vinegar

1 teaspoon sugar

Brown and crumble meat until done; drain. Add all other ingredients and
cook over medium to low heat, at least 1 hour, stirring occasionally.
Remove bay leaves before serving over pasta.

**Super Chunky Meat Sauce**

1 lb. ground beef ½ cup chopped onion

1 ½ cups sliced fresh mushrooms 1 cup chopped green pepper

1 (15-oz.) can Hunt's tomato sauce, 1 (14.5-oz.) can Hunt's diced
tomatoes

chunky garlic and herb 2 tablespoons fresh parsley

8 oz. fettuccine, cooked and drained Freshly grated Parmesan cheese

Brown beef, onion, mushrooms and pepper until beef is done; drain well.
Add remaining ingredients and simmer over medium to low heat for 1 hour;
stir occasionally. Serve over fettuccine with grated Parmesan cheese.

**Morris Varon's Famous Meat Sauce**

2 lbs. lean ground sirloin Olive oil

1 giant onion, chopped 1 clove fresh garlic, minced

Tad of oregano 2 large cans tomatoes

2 large cans tomato sauce Salt and pepper to taste

2 stalks celery, chopped 1 medium bell pepper, chopped

1 medium can mushrooms, undrained Parsley flakes

1 can tomato paste

Brown ground sirloin and set aside. In a little olive oil, sauté onion
and garlic until browned. Add the ground sirloin and a tad of oregano.
Cook and strain. Add 2 large cans of tomatoes (mashed) and 2 large cans
of tomato sauce. Salt and pepper to taste.

Add celery, bell pepper, a little parsley flakes and can of mushrooms
with liquid. Simmer on low for 15-30 minutes. Add tomato paste and let
cook very low for 15-20 minutes. Stir occasionally.

**Winter Warm-Up Spaghetti Sauce**

1 lb. bulk Italian sausage 1 cup chopped onion

1 cup chopped green pepper 2 cloves garlic, minced

28-oz. can whole tomatoes, broken up 6-oz. can tomato paste

4-oz. can sliced mushrooms, undrained 1 teaspoon basil leaves

½ teaspoon oregano leaves 1/8 teaspoon crushed red peppers, if desired

1 lb. package spaghetti 2 tablespoons soft butter

Grated Parmesan cheese

Brown sausage, onion, green pepper and garlic; drain. Add all
ingredients except spaghetti, butter and Parmesan cheese; simmer
uncovered 20 minutes. Prepare spaghetti according to package directions;
drain. Toss with butter. Serve sauce over spaghetti with Parmesan
cheese. 8 servings.

**Vegetable Spaghetti**

> Florence Denio Wilson (Ruth Marie Byrne)

1 ½ pounds ground beef 3 carrots, chopped

1 large onion, chopped 1 green pepper, chopped

1 zucchini squash, chopped 2 yellow neck squash, chopped

2 tablespoons olive oil 3 (24-oz.) jars Ragu Chunky Garden Combination

12 oz. package thin spaghetti spaghetti sauce

Brown ground beef; drain well; set aside. Sauté all chopped vegetables
in olive oil (I cover pan so that moisture cooks vegetables.) Cook until
vegetables are "soft". Add ground beef and 3 jars spaghetti sauce. Cook
on low about 1 hour; stir frequently.

Cool spaghetti according to directions. Add cooked spaghetti to sauce;
stir well.

May top with Parmesan cheese. Freezes well.

**Chili-Tortilla Casserole**

1 lb. ground beef 1 (14.5-oz.) can sliced baby tomatoes

1 can (8-oz.) tomato sauce 1 envelope (1 ¼ oz.) chili sauce mix

1 can (15-oz.) red kidney beans ¼ teaspoon cumin

1 can (12-oz.) whole kernel corn 1/8 cup pitted ripe olives

8 frozen tortillas, from a 9-oz. package 1 package (4-oz.) grated
cheddar cheese

Shredded lettuce Sliced avocado

Preheat oven to 400°. Remove the frozen tortillas from package to thaw.
(Return remaining tortillas to freezer for later.) Brown meat in a large
skillet. Stir in tomatoes, tomato sauce, chili sauce mix and cumin.
Simmer, uncovered, 5 minutes. Stir in beans, corn and olives. Cut
tortillas into quarters. Layer meat mixture and tortillas in a 2-qt.
casserole, ending with tortillas. Sprinkle cheese on top. Bake in hot
oven (400°) 15 minutes, or until bubbly-hot and cheese is melted.
Garnish with shredded lettuce and avocado on top. Serve with additional
lettuce and avocado.

**Barbecued Pork Chops**

6 pork chops 1 ½ teaspoon salt

½ cup chopped onion ¼ cup cider vinegar

1 tablespoon butter ¼ cup sugar

¼ teaspoon pepper ¼ cup catsup

1 tablespoon Worcestershire sauce

Brown chops in skillet (with little oil). Place in baking dish. Blend
other ingredients and pour over chops. Cover and bake for 30 minutes at
325°.

**Grilled Pork Chops**

Pork chops (1" thick) Olive Oil

Sea Salt Black pepper

Butter

Pat chops dry with paper towels. Brush with thin coat of olive oil, then
season with salt and pepper. Place chops directly on medium heated grill
and cook 5-6 minutes on each side. DON'T CUT FOR DONENESS! They should
be 140° in center. Remove and let rest 5 minutes before serving. Top
with pat of butter when taken off the grill.

**Pork Chops and Gravy**

4 pork loin chops, ¾ "thick ½ cup Bisquick baking mix

¼ cup shortening ¼ cup all-purpose flour

1 ½ cups water 2 teaspoons beef instant bouillon or 2 beef cubes

Coat pork with baking mix. Heat shortening in 10" skillet over medium
heat until melted. Cook pork until brown on both sides; remove from
skillet. Stir flour into skillet. Cook, stirring occasionally, until
mixture is smooth and bubbly. Stir in water and bouillon. Heat to
boiling, stirring constantly, until bouillon is dissolved. Boil and stir
1 minute. Add pork; reduce heat. Cover and simmer 20 minutes.

**Slow Cooker BBQ Pulled Pork #1**

1 Reynolds Slow Cooker Liner 1 package McCormick Slow Cookers BBQ pulled

3 lbs. boneless pork shoulder roast, pork seasoning mix

well-trimmed ½ cup ketchup

½ cup firmly packed brown sugar 1/3 cup cider vinegar

Open liner and place inside slow cooker bowl. Pull top of liner over rim
of bowl. Place pork in slow cooker. Mix seasoning, ketchup, brown sugar
and vinegar until well-blended. Pour over pork. Cover. Cook 8 hours on
low or 4 hours on high. Remove pork from slow cooker. Shred pork, using
2 forks. Return port to slow cooker; mix and heat with sauce before
serving. Serve directly from lined-slow cooker. Do not lift transport
liner with food inside. Cool slow cooker completely; remove liner and
toss. Important: For best results, do not remove cover during cooking.

**Slow-Cooked Pulled Pork #2**

2/3 cup Worcestershire sauce ½ cup Heinz ketchup

¼ cup firmly packed brown sugar ¼ cup tomato paste

1 medium white onion, chopped 2 tablespoons yellow mustard

2 tablespoons white vinegar 3 ½ lb. boneless pork shoulder, trimmed and
cut

into 4 pieces

In a 6-qt. crock pot mix all ingredients except pork. Once combined, add
pork, turning to cover. Cook on low for 8-10 hours.\* Remove pork and
shred with 2 forks. Return pork to crock pot and stir into sauce. To
serve, spoon ½ cup onto a sandwich bun.

\*Ensure internal temperature reaches at least 165°.

**BBQ Pork Shoulder**

> Paula Deen

3 ½ lb. boneless pork shoulder 2 tablespoons salt

2 tablespoons dark brown sugar 2 tablespoons black pepper

2 tablespoons paprika ½ tablespoon garlic powder

½ tablespoon cayenne pepper 1 cups apple juice or cider

1 cup apple cider vinegar 2 tablespoons Worcestershire Sauce

1 tablespoon liquid smoke

Mix dry ingredients together to form dry rub. Rub pork shoulder. (Save
any leftover for future use.) Cover pork and put in refrigerator 2
hours. Mix remaining ingredients. After pork has been in refrigerator 2
hours, remove and put in large cast iron or heavy cooking dish. Pour
liquid over pork. Bake at 325° for 4 hours. Let rest and then pull apart
with 2 forks.

**Pork Tenderloin #1**

> Lola Tarrants

2 pound pork tenderloin Salt and pepper to taste

4 tablespoons butter, softened 1 -- 2 teaspoons dried thyme

Apricot Sauce

Preheat oven to 350°. Spread butter on meat; sprinkle with salt, pepper
and thyme. Bake 30-40 minutes. While meat is baking, mix ingredients for
apricot sauce. Remove meat from oven and brush with apricot sauce.
Return to oven and continue baking for 15 minutes more, basting with the
remaining apricot sauce. Do not overcook. 6-8 servings.

*[Apricot Sauce]{.underline}*:

9 oz. apricot preserves 1-2 tablespoons honey

1 tablespoon dry mustard Garlic powder, to taste

1-2 tablespoons dry sherry or Madeira

**Pork Tenderloin #2**

Pork Tenderloin Garlic Salt

Onion Salt 2 tablespoons butter

¾ cup chopped onion 1 cup red plum jam

2 cups Dr. Pepper 2 tablespoons lemon juice

1/3 cup chili sauce ¼ cup soy sauce

2 teaspoons mustard 3 drops tabasco

Sprinkle meat with garlic and onion salt. Sauté butter and onions; add
all other ingredients to onions and simmer 15 minutes. Pour sauce over
tenderloin and bake at 325° for 1 ½ hours. Bake uncovered and baste with
sauce every now and then while pork is baking.

**Pork Tenderloin #3**

2 pork tenderloins Real mayonnaise

Seasoned pepper Cavender's Greek Seasoning

Preheat oven to 450°. Rub tenderloins with mayonnaise. Sprinkle with
pepper and Greek seasonings. Wrap in heavy foil. For 55 minutes. Turn
off oven and leave in oven for 55 minutes. DO NOT OPEN OVEN DURING THIS
TIME!

**Pork Tenderloin #4**

> Lou's Recipe

Pork tenderloin (either 1 or 2) 2-3 tablespoons Dale's Steak Sauce

2-3 tablespoons Worcestershire Sauce 2-3 tablespoons lemon juice

Kraft House Italian Dressing

Wash and dry pork tenderloins and place in large Ziploc bag. Put Dale's
steak sauce, Worcestershire Sauce and lemon juice in bag with
tenderloins and massage bag to cover the tenderloins with the marinade.
(If this liquid doesn't seem enough, just add equal amounts.) Place
Ziploc bag on glass Pyrex dish (just in case the bag has a leak.)
Refrigerate and leave at least 30 minutes -- more is fine. Turn bag over
and massage meat while it is in refrigerator. Prepare grill to medium
heat. Place meat on grill; discard marinade and brush with Kraft house
dressing while meat is cooking. Watch carefully, fire has tendency to
flame up. Turn and baste meat until temperature of largest part of
tenderloin registers 160°. DO NOT OVERCOOK. Remove from grill and let
meat rest for 10 minutes. Meat tends to continue cooking for few minutes
after removed from grill. Slice across the meat to make small
medallions.

**Baby Back Ribs**

> Howard Wilson

1 large slab baby back ribs White vinegar

Cavender's Rub BBQ Sauce

Cut slabs in half. Wash and dry. Put in shallow pan. Cover meat with
white vinegar -- rub over enter meat (both sides); don't let vinegar
stand in pan. Rub Cavender's Rub over all sides of meat (generously).
Cover pan tightly with foil. Bake in 350° oven for 1 ½ to 2 hours.
Remove meat from pan and drain off liquids. Put ribs back in pan. Cover
both sides with BBQ sauce. Cover loosely and let mellow until read to
grill. Grill until BBQ sauce is caramelized -- about 10 minutes per
side.
