---
layout: recipe
title: "Pies"
category: "Desserts & Sweets"
---

# Pies

**Apple Pie**

2 pie crusts 1 can apple pie filling

½ cup sugar ½ stick butter

Spread can of pie filling over one crust (in pie pan); sprinkle sugar
over pie filling. Cut butter into several pats and place over sugar and
pie filling. Cover pie with second pie crust; seal edges. With prongs of
fork stick several holes in top of pie crust. Bake in 400° oven until
golden brown.

**Fresh Apple Pie #1**

1 cup all-purpose flour ¼ teaspoon salt

¼ cup shortening (solid) 3 to 4 tablespoons [cold]{.underline} water

1 tablespoon cornstarch 2 tablespoons unsweetened apple juice

5 cups peeled, diced apples ½ cup unsweetened apple juice

1 tablespoon brown sugar ½ teaspoon pumpkin pie spice

1 medium apple, unpeeled and thinly sliced Lemon juice

Combine flour and salt; cut in shortening with pastry blender until
mixture resembles coarse meal. Sprinkle cold water (1 tablespoon at a
time) evenly over surface; stir with a fork until all dry ingredients
are moistened. Shape into a ball; roll out pastry to 1/8" thickness on a
lightly floured surface. Place in a 9" pie plate; trim and flute edges.
Prick bottom and sides of pastry shell with a fork; bake at 425° for 12
to 15 minutes. Set aside to cool.

Combine cornstarch and 2 tablespoons apple juice, mixing well; set
aside.

Combine diced apples, ½ cup apple juice, and brown sugar and pie spice
in a large saucepan. Bring to a boil; cover, reduce heat, and simmer 3
to 4 minutes or until apples are tender. Stir in cornstarch mixture;
cook, stirring constantly, until clear and thickened. Cool mixture;
spoon into pastry shell.

Dip apple slices in lemon juice; then drain. Garnish top of pie with
apple slices. Yield: 8 servings (about 164 calories per serving.)

**Fresh Apple Pie #2**

¾ cup sugar 1 tablespoon lemon juice

1 tablespoon cornstarch 2 pie crusts

1 teaspoon ground cinnamon 1 tablespoon butter

6 cups peeled, cored, and sliced apples

Stir together sugar, cinnamon and cornstarch. Toss with apples and lemon
juice until coate3d. Turn into pastry lined 9" pie plate. Dot with
butter. Cover with top crust. Seal and flute edge; cut slits in top.
Bake in 425° for 50 minutes or until crust is browned.

For **Ginger Peach Pie**

Omit cinnamon and butter. Use 3 tablespoons cornstarch and ½ teaspoon
ground ginger. Substitute peaches for apples. Bake 40 minutes or until
filling is bubbly and crust is browned.

**Caramel Apple Pie**

½ package (about 24) Kraft caramels 1 tablespoon milk

1 (6-oz.) Graham Cracker Pie Crust 1/3 cup chopped nuts

1 package (8-oz.) Cream cheese, softened ½ cup sour cream

2 tablespoons sugar ½ cup chunky applesauce

2 teaspoons vanilla ½ teaspoon cinnamon

3- ½ cups (8-oz.) Cool Whip Fresh apple slices

Melt caramels with milk in small microwavable bowl at high 1 to 1 ½
minutes; stir mixture until smooth. Pour into crust; sprinkle with nuts.
Cool.

Beat cream cheese, sour cream and sugar until smooth; stir in
applesauce, vanilla and cinnamon. Fold in half of the Cool Whip. Spread
mixture over cooled caramel layer in crust.

Chill at least 4 hours. Garnish with remaining Cool Whip, apple slices
and melted caramels, if desired. Store any leftover pie in refrigerator.

**Deep Dish Apple Pie**

> Mother (Mary Frances Davis)

4 medium-size Granny Smith apples 1 cup sugar

Water 1 cup flour

1 stick butter, melted

Cut apples in chunks and put in greased pie dish. Pour ½ cup sugar over
apples. Sprinkle enough water to dissolve sugar. Mix ½ cup sugar, flour
and butter and pour over apples (may have to spoon or crumble this over
apples). Bake 325° for 1 hour.

**Dutch Apple Pie**

1 Graham Cracker pie crust 1 large egg yolk, slightly beaten

5 ½ cups fresh, peeled, sliced 1 tablespoon lemon juice\*

cooking apples ½ cup sugar

¼ cup light brown sugar, firmly packed 3 tablespoons all-purpose flour

¼ teaspoon salt ½ teaspoon ground cinnamon

¼ teaspoon ground nutmeg ¾ cup all-purpose flour

¼ cup sugar ¼ cup light brown sugar, firmly packed

1/3 cup butter, room temperature

Preheat oven to 375°. Brush bottom and sides of crust evenly with egg
yolk; bake on baking sheet until light brown, about 5 minutes. Remove
crush from oven.

Combine apples, lemon juice, ½ cup sugar, ¼ cup brown sugar, 3
tablespoons flour, salt, cinnamon and nutmeg. Mix well and spoon into
crust. Mix remaining flour, sugar, brown sugar and butter with fork
until crumbly. Sprinkle topping mixture evenly over apples.

Bake on baking sheet until topping is golden and filling is bubbling;
about 50 minutes. Cool thoroughly on wire rack (at least 4 hours). Serve
at room temperature. Serves 8.

\*Omit lemon juice if apples are tart.

**Impossible French Apple Pie**

6 cups sliced, pared tart apples ¾ cup milk

1 ¼ teaspoons ground cinnamon ½ cup Bisquick

¼ teaspoon ground nutmeg 2 eggs

1 cup sugar 2 tablespoons butter, softened

Streusel (Below)

Heat oven to 325°. Grease pie plate, 10 x 1 ½ inches. Mix apples and
spices; turn into plate. Beat remaining ingredients except Streusel
until smooth, 15 seconds in blender on high or 1 minute with hand mixer.
Pour into plate. Sprinkle with Streusel. Bake until knife inserted in
the center comes out clean, 55-60 minutes.

*[Streusel:]{.underline}*

1 cup Bisquick ½ cup chopped nuts

1/3 cup packed brown sugar 3 tablespoons firm butter

Mix all ingredients until crumbly. Sprinkle over pie.

**Fresh Blueberry Pie #1**

Ann Garabrant

¾ cup sugar ¼ teaspoon salt

2 ½ tablespoons cornstarch 2/3 cup water

3 cups fresh blueberries 2 tablespoons butter

1 ½ tablespoon lemon juice 1 cup whipping cream

Bake a 9" pie crust; cool. Mix sugar, salt and cornstarch in saucepan.
Add water; mix; add 1 cup fresh blueberries. Bring to a boil and cook,
stirring constantly, until thick. Remove from heat. Add butter and lemon
juice. Cool. Fold in 1 cup blueberries and chill for 2 hours.

Whip cream. Spread half on bottom of pie crust. (May use Cool Whip).
Fill with blueberry mixture and garnish with remainder of whipping
cream.

**Fresh Blueberry Pie #2**

Pastry for double crust 9" pie 1 cup granulated sugar

1/3 cup all-purpose flour ½ teaspoon grated lemon rind (optional)

1 tablespoon lemon juice 4 cups fresh blueberries

2 tablespoons butter Milk

Additional granulated sugar

Preheat oven to 375°. Line 9" pie pan with half of pastry. Set aside. In
large bowl, combine sugar, flour, and lemon rind and lemon juice. Add
blueberries and gently toss to coat. Spoon blueberry mixture into
pastry-lined pie pan and dot with butter. Top with lattice following
directions on pastry package. Trim and flute edges. Brush top with milk
and sprinkle with sugar. To prevent overbrowning, cover edge of crust
with foil. Bake 25 minutes; remove foil. Bake 25-30 minutes or until top
is golden brown. Serve warm or cool. Makes 8 servings.

**Blueberry-Peach Custard Pie**

1 cup sugar ¾ cup skim milk

¾ cup (6 --oz.) nonfat plain Greek yogurt 2 large eggs

2 tablespoons all-purpose flour 2 tablespoons cornstarch

¼ teaspoon almond extract Pinch of salt

1 prepared pie crust 1 cup blueberries

1 cup peeled, sliced peaches

Make filling; in a medium bowl, combine sugar, milk, yogurt, eggs,
flour, cornstarch, almond extract and salt. Whisk until smooth; set
aside.

Arrange peaches in the bottom of the crust and top with blueberrie3s in
an even layer. Pour the filling on top (the fruit will float but this
won't affect the final results). Place the pie pan on a baking sheet.
Bake in preheated oven at 400° for 25 minutes. Remove the pie from oven
and cover the edges of the crust with foil to help prevent over
browning. Reduce oven to 350° and return pie to oven.

Bake until a knife inserted at the center of the pie comes out clean,
another 20 to 25 minutes (the pie may puff up quite a bit but will
settle during cooling). Let cool for 1 ½ hours. Serve warm or
refrigerate until cold and serve chilled. 10 Servings at 200 calories
each serving.

**Nina's Blueberry Pie**

> Nina Rainwater

1 egg, beaten 1 teaspoon vanilla

1 stick butter, melted 1 cup sugar

¾ cup self-rising flour, sifted ¼ cup coconut

¼ cup chopped pecans 1 ¾ cups fresh blueberries

Mix egg, vanilla, butter and sugar; gradually add flour, mixing well.
Fold in coconut, pecans and blueberries. Pour into a 9" deep-dish pie
crust. Bake for 50 minutes at 350°.

**Cherry Delight**

1 Graham Cracker Pie Crust 1 large package cream cheese

1 cup powdered sugar 2 tablespoons milk

½ cup chopped pecans 1 package Dream Whip

1 can cherry pie filling

Mix cream cheese, powdered sugar and milk; spread over crust. Add pecans
on top of cheese layer (optional). Make Dream Whip as directions on box
read; spread over pecans. Put cherry pie filling on top. Keep
refrigerated.

**Dream Whip Cherry Pie**

> Ruth Stinson

1 package Dream Whip ½ cup sugar

1 can cherries (tart and pitted) 1 can sweetened condensed milk

Juice of 2 lemons 1 cup chopped pecans

2 baked pastry shells

Mix Dream Whip according to directions. In another bowl, mix lemon juice
and condensed milk. Fold in Dream whip. Add well-drained cherries and
nuts. Divide into 2 baked pastry shells. Refrigerate until ready to
serve.

**Cherry Cheese Pie**

1 (9") graham cracker crumb crust or 1 (8-oz.) cream cheese, softened

Pastry shell 1 (14-oz.) can sweetened condensed milk

1/3 cup lemon juice 1 teaspoon vanilla extract

1 (21-oz.) can cherry pie filling, chilled

In large mixer bowl, beat cream cheese until fluffy. Gradually beat in
sweetened condensed milk until smooth. Stir in lemon juice and vanilla.
Pour into prepared crust. Chill 3 hours or until set. Top with desired
amount of pie filling before serving. Refrigerate leftovers.

**Cheery Cherry-Pineapple Pie**

1 can sour pitted cherries, drained 1 cup crushed pineapple, drained

2 cups liquid (saved juices from fruit) 7 tablespoons cornstarch

1 ¾ cups granulated sugar ¼ teaspoon salt

1 teaspoon vanilla 1 teaspoon almond extract

4 bananas, sliced 2 baked pie shells

Whipping cream

Drain cherries and pineapple and reserve juices. Combine fruit juice and
water (enough for 2 cups), cornstarch, sugar and salt and cook, stirring
until thick. Stir in cherries, pineapple, vanilla and almond extract.
Add sliced bananas and transfer into pie shells. Top with whipping cream
(may substitute Cool Whip). Keep chilled and serve same day. Makes 2
pies.

**Cranberry Cherry Pie**

1 (15-oz.) package Pillsbury All-Ready 1 cups fresh or frozen
cranberries

Pie Crusts ¾ cup sugar

2 tablespoons cornstarch 1 (21-oz.) can cherry fruit pie filling

Prepare pie crust according to package directions for two-crust pie
using 9" pie pan. Heat oven to 425°.

In large bowl, combine cranberries, sugar and cornstarch; mix well. Stir
in cherry pie filling; mix lightly. Spoon into pie crust-lined pan.
Place second pie crust on top; seal and flute edges. Prick top with fork
so air can escape while cooking. Bake for 35-45 minutes or until crust
is golden brown and filling is bubbly. 8 servings.

Tip: Cover edge of crust with strips of foil after about 15 or 20
minutes of baking to prevent excessive browning.

**Pineapple Pie**

> Trish Partridge

1 large can crushed pineapple, well-drained 1 (8-oz.) package cream
cheese

½ pint whipping cream, whipped ¼ cup sugar

1 graham cracker crust

Whip cream; whip cream cheese. Fold whipped cream into cream cheese.
(You may use Cool Whip instead of whipping cream; then just fold the
creamed cheese and Cool Whip together.) Add sugar and pineapple. Pour
into a graham cracker crust and refrigerate.

**Pineapple Dessert Pie**

> Olivet Willis

1 ¼ cup sifted flour ½ teaspoon soda

½ teaspoon salt ½ cup butter

1/3 cup sugar 1 teaspoon vanilla

1 unbeaten egg Pineapple Filling

Chopped pecans

Add dry ingredients and blend well and set aside. Combine butter, sugar,
vanilla and egg; mix well. Add dry ingredients to wet ingredients and
blend well. Spread in the bottom of an ungreased 9" pie pan. Bake for
20-25 minutes at 350° until golden brown. Cool.

Make Pineapple Filling. Half the pie cake horizontally to make 2 layers.
Place 1 layer back in pie pan and spread with ½ the Pineapple filling.
Top with remaining layer and remaining filling. Sprinkle with chopped
pecans. Chill at least 3 hours.

*[Pineapple Filling:]{.underline}*

1 (8-oz) carton Cool Whip 1 cup miniature marshmallows

1 cup (12-oz.) jar pineapple preserves 1 teaspoon grated lemon rind

Mix all ingredients by folding together.

**Pineapple Sour-Cream Pie**

¾ cup sugar ¼ cup flour

½ teaspoon salt 2 ½ cups undrained crushed pineapple

1 cup sour cream 1 tablespoon lemon juice

2 slightly beaten egg yolks 1 baked 9" pie shell

2 egg whites ½ teaspoon vanilla

¼ teaspoon cream of tartar ¼ cup sugar

In a saucepan, combine sugar, flour and salt. Stir in pineapple, sour
cream and lemon juice. Cook and stir until mixture thickens and comes to
a boil; cook 2 minutes. Stir small amount of hot mixture into yolks;
return to hot mixture, stirring constantly. Cook and stir 2 minutes.
Cool to room temperature; spoon into pie shell. Beat egg whites with
vanilla and cream of tartar to soft peaks. Gradually add sugar, beating
until stiff and glossy; spread atop pie, sealing to edge of pastry. Bake
at 350° for 12-15 minutes.

**Strawberry Pie**

1 baked pie shell 3 tablespoons strawberry Jell-O

3 tablespoons cornstarch 1 cup sugar

1 cup water 1 pint fresh strawberries, washed and sliced

Combine Jell-O, cornstarch, sugar and water in saucepan. Bring to boil
and boil 1 minute. Remove from heat and add sliced strawberries. Chill
in refrigerator until beginning to set. Spoon into prepared pie crust.
Top with Cool Whip. Refrigerate.

**MAMA BUCK's Strawberry Chiffon Pie**

Chill (in freezer) 1 large carnation evaporated milk (about 1 hr. works
for me)

1 c sugar, 2 eggs, small crushed pineapple==cook until thickens

Add small strawberry Jell-O

Whip evaporated milk until stiff and add to above mixture.

Pour into a prepared graham crust. (makes 2 8" pies)

I also have put in sherbet or wine glasses as a parfait and served with
cookies, etc.

Makes Great Valentine Dessert per Mama Buck.

(and even better when served with special friends.)

**9-Minute Fresh Fruit Pie**

4 cups blueberries or halved strawberries 2 tablespoons cornstarch

Or peeled sliced peaches 2 tablespoons water

½ cup light corn syrup 2 teaspoons lemon juice

1 (8-oz.) carton of Cool Whip 1 prepared pie crust

In covered blender blend 1 cup of the fruit at high speed 30 seconds. In
2-quart saucepan mix cornstarch and water until smooth. Add mashed
fruit, corn syrup and lemon juice. Stirring constantly, bring to boil
over medium heat and boil

**Easy Key Lime Pie #1**

5 egg yolks, beaten 1 (14-oz.) can sweetened condensed milk

½ cup key lime juice 1 9") prepared graham cracker crust

Preheat oven to 375°. Combine the egg yolks, sweetened condensed milk
and lime juice. Mix well. Pour into unbaked graham cracker crust. Bake
for 15 minutes. Allow to cool. Top with whipped topping and garnish with
lime slices if desired.

**Key Lime Pie #2**

1 can sweetened condensed milk ½ cup key lime juice

¼ teaspoon salt 4 egg yolks

1 prepared graham cracker crust

Mix ingredients (except pie crust) until slightly thickened. Pour into
graham cracker crust. Bake at 350° for 10 minutes. Serve chilled. Top
with whipped cream (beaten) or Cool Whip.

**Key Lime Pie #3**

1 (12-oz.) can frozen limeade, concentrate 2 (14-oz.) cans sweetened
condensed milk

1 (12-oz.) Cool Whip 1 cup sour cream

Green food coloring (if desired) Graham Cracker Crust (recipe below)

Combine limeade with condensed milk. Add sour cream. Add Cool Whip. Add
few drops of green food coloring. Mix and pour over crust. Place in
refrigerator overnight. Garnish with red cherries, if desired.

*[Graham Cracker Crust:\*]{.underline}*

2 sticks butter, melted 3 cups graham cracker crumbs

½ cup sugar

Mix ingredients and press into bottom of 9z13" aluminum disposable pan.

\*Two graham cracker crusts may be substituted for the crust.

**5 Minute Key Lime Pie**

¼ cup water 1 (3-oz.) package sugar-free lime-flavor gelatin

2 (6-oz.) containers fat-free key lime 1 (8-oz.) tub frozen reduced-fat
non-dairy whipped

Pie yogurt topping, thawed

1 Graham Cracker Reduced Fat Pie Crust

In microwave-safe measuring cup heat water on high for 45 seconds to 1 ½
minutes or until boiling. Whisk in gelatin until dissolved. In large
bowl whisk together gelatin mixture and yogurt. Fold in whipping
topping. Carefully spread in crust. Refrigerate at least 4 hours or
until set. Garnish as desired. Store in refrigerator. 8 servings.

**Key Lime Mousse Pie**

> Hungry Girl

**[Crust:]{.underline}**

¼ cup light whipped butter 2 tablespoons water

1 ¾ cups Fiber One bran cereal 4 no-calorie sweetener packets

1 teaspoon cinnamon

**[Filling:]{.underline}**

1 cup boiling water 1 (4-oz.) package sugar-free lime gelatin

1 no-calorie sweetener packet ½ cup cold water

1 ½ tablespoons lemon juice 14 teaspoon vanilla extract

2 cups fat-free whipped topping

Preheat oven to 350°. In a microwave-safe bowl, combine the butter with
the water. Microwave until the butter is just melted. In a blender or
food processor, grind the cereal to a bread crumb-like consistence. In a
medium mixing bowl, combine the cereal crumbs with the butter mixture,
sweetener and cinnamon. Stir well until mixed.

Spray a 9" pie dish with nonstick cooking spray. Press the crumb mixture
into the bottom and up the sides of the dish. Bake 10 minutes; remove
from oven and cool.

Meanwhile, in a medium mixing bowl, combine the boiling water with the
gelatin and sweetener. Stir the mixture for 2 minutes or until the
gelatin is completely dissolved. Add the cold water, lemon juice and
vanilla extract; mix well. Refrigerate for about 45 minutes or until
slightly thickened, but not set.

Once the gelatin is thickened slightly, stir in the whipped topping.
Whisk until thoroughly blended; pour mixture into the cooled pie crust.
Refrigerate until firm, at least 2 hours. Store in the refrigerator
until ready to serve. Cut into slices; serves 8.

**Lemon Cake Pudding Pie**

1 deep dish pie crust 1 cup sugar

¼ cup flour ¼ cup butter, melted

1/8 teaspoon salt 2 eggs, separated

Juice of 2 lemons, about 1/3 cup 1 teaspoons lemon peel (zest)

2/3 cup evaporated milk (1 small can) 1/3 cup water

Preheat oven to 350°. In a mixing bowl, combine sugar, flour, salt,
butter and egg yolks. Mix well. Beat in lemon juice and lemon zest.
Gradually add milk, beating constantly. Beat egg whites until stiff
peaks form but not dry. Fold into the milk mixture. Pour into pie crust.
Bake on a preheated cookie sheet until toothpick inserted in center
comes out dry, about 40 minutes. Cool; refrigerate several hours before
serving. If desired, serve with non-dairy topping.

**Easy Lemon Pie**

About 6 slices bread 1 cup sugar

3 egg yolks, slightly beaten 1/3 cup lemon juice

1 teaspoon fresh grated lemon rind 1 tablespoon butter

1 baked 9" pie crust 3 egg whites

¼ cream of tartar 5 tablespoons sugar

Cut crusts from bread slices. Dip slices in bowl of water to soften.
Gently squeeze out water, leaving bread the consistency of a sponge.
Pile lightly into measuring cup to make 1 cup. Pat in gently; do not
pack too tightly. Put bread, sugar, egg yolks, lemon juice and butter in
top of double boiler. Cook and stir until mixture thickens. It will be
somewhat thick and lumpy at first, then liquefy, and then become smooth
and thickened. Spoon into pie shell. Immediately put meringue on hot
filling, being careful to seal the meringue to the pie shell to prevent
shrinking and weeping.

***Meringue:*** Beat egg whites ad cream of tartar until light and
frothy. Gradually add sugar and continue beating until the mixture forms
peaks. Bake at 400° until meringue browns. This should take about 10
minutes.

**Lemon Chess Pie**

2 cups sugar 1 tablespoon four

1 tablespoon cornmeal 4 eggs

¼ cup melted butter ¼ cup milk

2 tablespoons lemon juice ¼ teaspoon lemon flavoring

1 pastry shell

Combine sugar, flour and meal in a mixing bowl. Add eggs, melted butter,
milk, juices and flavoring. Beat well and pour mixture into pastry
shell. Bake at 375° until firm and light brown.

**Lemon Pie**

> Mama Franklin

1 ¼ cup sugar ¼ teaspoon salt

2 egg yolks 1 ½ cups milk

1 whole egg ½ stick butter

3 ½ tablespoons flour Juice and grated rind of 1 lemon

Mix flour, sugar and salt. Beat egg yolks and 1 whole egg. Add milk to
beaten eggs. Add to dry mixture. Add butter. Put in top of double
boiler. Add lemon juice and lemon zest. Cook, stirring often, until
mixtures is thick enough to hold shape.

Pour into prepared baked pie shell. Top with meringue made from the 2
egg whites left over when separated from yolks. Bake in 375° oven until
meringue is brown.

*[Meringue:]{.underline}*

2 egg whites 4 tablespoons sugar

1 teaspoon cream of tartar

Beat egg whites until they hold their shape and are stiff; gradually add
sugar and cream of tartar. Continue to beat until stiff. When spooning
onto pie. Start by dropping spoonfuls around egg of pie shell; sealing
the meringue well with edge of crust. Continue meringue toward center of
pie until all pie is covered with meringue.

**Sunday Pie**

> Pat Cliggett

1 (3 ½ -oz.) package Jell-O Lemon Pudding 1 envelope unflavored gelatin

And Pie filling 1 cup sugar

2 ¼ cups water 2 tablespoons lemon juice

3 egg yolks 1 teaspoon grated lemon rind

1 tablespoon butter 3 egg whites

1 envelope Dream Whip Mix 1 baked, fluted 9" pie shell, cooled

Combine pie filling mix, gelatin, sugar, ¼ [cup]{.underline} of water
and lemon juice in saucepan. Blend and stir over medium heat until
mixture comes to [full]{.underline} boil. Remove from heat; add lemon
rind and butter. Beat egg whites until soft peaks form; gradually fold
in hot pie filling. Cover surface with wax paper and chill. Prepare
whipped topping mix as directed on package. Blend 1 cup prepared topping
into chilled pie filling. Pour into pie shell; chill until set -- about
3 hours. Garnish with remaining Dream whip and lemon slices, if desired.
(From Pat: We have eaten this pie as long as 6 days after preparation
and it is still good -- not tough or rubbery.)

**Buttermilk Pie (or Chess Pie)**

2 eggs, slightly beaten ½ stick butter, melted

3 tablespoons cornstarch 1 teaspoon vanilla extract

1 cup sugar 1 teaspoon lemon extract\*

1 cup buttermilk 1 unbaked pie shell

Mix all ingredients and pour into unbaked pie shell. Cook 10 minutes at
450°. Turn to 350° and cook 30 minutes.

Note: You can also sprinkle coconut on top. Good while hot.

\*You can use 2 teaspoons vanilla and omit the lemon extract if you do
not want a hint of lemon in pie.

**Chocolate Caramel Pecan Pie**

25 Kraft caramels 2 tablespoons milk

1 cup chopped roasted pecans 1 (6-oz.) graham cracker pie crush

1 package (8 squares) Baker's semi-sweet 1 tub (8 oz.) Cool Whip, thawed
and divided

Place caramels in medium microwavable bowl. Add milk. Microwave on high
2 ½ to 3 minutes or until caramels are completely melted, stirring after
each minute. Stir in pecans. Pour into crust. Microwave chocolates in
medium microwavable bowl on high 1 ½ to 2 minutes or until chocolate is
completely melted, stirring after each minute. Add 2 cups of the whipped
topping; stir with wire whisk until well blended. Spread over the
caramel layer in crust.

Refrigerate at least 2 hours. Let stand at room temperature 10 to 15
minutes before serving. Top with remaining whipped topping. Store
leftover pie in refrigerator. Makes 10 servings.

**Chocolate Pie #1**

> Mama Franklin

1 cup sugar 3 tablespoons flour

2 egg yolks 1 whole egg

1 ½ cups milk ½ teaspoon salt

¼ stick butter 1 teaspoon vanilla

3 level tablespoons cocoa 1 baked pastry shell

Mix sugar, flour, salt and cocoa. Add 2 egg yolks and 1 whole egg and
beat thoroughly. Add milk and butter. Cook in double boiler until thick.
Add vanilla. Pour into prepared baked pie shell. Top with meringue made
from the 2 egg whites left over when separated from yolks. Bake in 375°
oven until meringue is brown.

*[Meringue:]{.underline}*

2 egg whites 4 tablespoons sugar

1 teaspoon cream of tartar

Beat egg whites until they hold their shape and are stiff; gradually add
sugar and cream of tartar. Continue to beat until stiff. When spooning
onto pie. Start by dropping spoonfuls around egg of pie shell; sealing
the meringue well with edge of crust. Continue meringue toward center of
pie until all pie is covered with meringue.

**Chocolate Pie #2**

> Dot Pyron

3 cups milk ¾ stick butter

9 oz. mini chocolate chips 3 cups sugar

3/8 cup cocoa 8 egg yolks

3 teaspoon vanilla 2 deep dish pie shells

Preheat oven to 350°. Mix milk,, butter and chocolate chips in saucepan;
heat until butter and chocolate chips are melted. Beat egg yolks with
whisk; slowly add milk mixture, mixing well. Mix sugar, flour and cocoa
together. Slowly add milk mixture to flour mixture, blending well. Add
vanilla. Pour into pie shells. Place on cookie sheet, cover with
meringue and bake for about 45-60 minutes.

*[Meringue:]{.underline}*

8 egg whites 1 1/8 cup sugar

1 ½ teaspoon vanilla

Beat egg whites until stiff. Slowly add sugar, beating until stiff peaks
form. Add vanilla and beat again. Spread over pie and bake until lightly
browned.

**Chocolate Pie #3**

> Lou Phillips

2 cups sugar 4 tablespoons flour

½ cup cocoa 2 cups milk

½ stick butter, melted 2 egg yolks

2 teaspoons vanilla

Stir dry ingredients together until well blended. Pour milk and butter
into flour mixture and mix well. Beat egg yolks and add vanilla. Add to
other mixture and beat well. Pour into uncooked pie crust and bake at
350° for 1 hour.

Make meringue with egg whites and 4 tablespoons sugar and 1 teaspoon
vanilla. Add to baked pie and bake until brown.

**Chocolate Pie #4**

> Marsha McGehee

1 cup sugar 3 tablespoons cornstarch

Dash of salt 2 cups milk

3 eggs, separated 1 (1-oz.) square unsweetened chocolate

1 tablespoon butter 1 teaspoon vanilla extract

1 baked 9" pie shell

Combine sugar, cornstarch and salt in a heavy saucepan; mix well.
Combine milk and egg yolks and beat well with wire whisk for 1-2 minutes
or until frothy. Gradually stir into sugar mixture, mixing well. Cook
over medium heat, stirring constantly, until thickened and bubbly.
Remove from heat; add chocolate, butter and vanilla, stirring until
chocolate and butter are melted. Spoon into pastry shell; set aside.
Make meringue (recipe below) and cover pie; sealing edges of shell with
meringue. Bake at 375° until meringue is brown.

*[Meringue:]{.underline}*

3 egg whites ½ teaspoon cream of tartar

¼ cup plus 2 tablespoons sugar

Beat egg whites until stiff. Slowly add sugar, beating until stiff peaks
form. Add vanilla and beat again. Spread over pie and bake until lightly
browned.

**The Best Chocolate Pie**

1 ½ cups sugar ½ cup flour

3 egg yolks beaten 2 cups milk

1 teaspoon vanilla 4 tablespoons cocoa

1 pat of butter 1baked pie shell

In saucepan add sugar, flour and cocoa. Stir together; then add ½ cup
milk gradually until blended. Add egg yolks and rest of milk; stir until
blended. Cook over medium heat, stirring constantly, until thickened.
Take off heat and add vanilla and butter. Pour into baked pie shell.
Cover with meringue and bake at 375° until brown.

*[Meringue:]{.underline}*

3 egg whites ½ teaspoon cream of tartar

6 tablespoons sugar

Beat egg whites until stiff. Add cream of tartar. Slowly add sugar,
beating until stiff peaks form.

**Fudge Pie**

> Southern Living Magazine

¾ cup butter 3 (1-oz.) unsweetened chocolate squares

3 large eggs 1 ½ cups sugar

¾ cup all-purpose flour 1 teaspoon vanilla extract

¾ cup chopped pecans, toasted and divided

Toppings: vanilla ice cream and chocolate syrup

Cook butter and chocolate in a small saucepan over low heat, stirring
often until melted. Beat eggs at medium speed with an electric mixer 5
minutes. Gradually add sugar, beating until blended. Gradually add
chocolate mixture, flour and vanilla, beating until blended. Stir in ½
cup pecans. Pour mixture into a lightly greased 9" pie plate. Bake at
350° for 35-40 minutes or until center is firm. Cool. Top each serving
with vanilla ice cream and chocolate syrup; sprinkle with remaining
chopped pecans.

**Frozen Choco-Cheese Pie**

2 (3-oz.) cream cheese, softened 2/3 cup sugar

2 tablespoons firmly packed brown sugar 1 teaspoon vanilla extract

1/8 teaspoon salt 2 (2-oz.) Nestle Choco-Bake

1 cup heavy cream, whipped 1 (9") prepared graham cracker crust

¼ cup chopped nuts

In large bowl, combine cream cheese, sugar, brown sugar, vanilla and
salt; beat until creamy. Blend in Nestle Choco-Bake; mix well. Fold
whipped cream into chocolate mixture. Spoon mixture into crust. Sprinkle
with nuts. Freeze until firm (about 2 hours.)

**Fudge Brownie Pie**

½ cup butter 3 squares (1-oz. each) unsweetened chocolate

1 cup sugar 1/3 cup Karo light corn syrup

¼ cup unsifted flour 1 teaspoon vanilla

¼ teaspoon salt 3 eggs

1 (9") graham cracker crust ½ cup chopped nuts\*

In a 2-quart saucepan, stirring constantly, melt butter and chocolate
over very low heat. Remove from heat. Stir in sugar, syrup, flour,
vanilla and salt until well blended. Stir in eggs, slightly beaten. Pour
into crust. Bake in 350° oven 30-35 minutes or until filling is puffed
and center is firm. Cool. Serve with vanilla ice cream or whipping
cream. Serves 6-8.

\*Adding the nuts makes a Fudge Nut Brownie Pie.

**Sundae Brownie Pie**

1 unbaked 9" pie crust 2 eggs

1 cup sugar ½ cup butter, melted

½ cup all-purpose flour 1/3 cup cocoa

¼ teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon vanilla

½ cup semi-sweet chocolate chips ½ cup peanut butter chips

½ cup chopped nuts Ice Cream

Hershey's Chocolate Topping Hershey's Kisses Milk Chocolate

Heat oven to 375°. Generously prick bottom and sides of pie crust with
fork. Bake crust 10 minutes; remove from oven. Meanwhile, in large bowl,
beat eggs; stir in sugar and butter. Stir together flour, cocoa and
salt; add to butter mixture. Stir in vanilla, chocolate chips, peanut
butter chips and nuts. Pour into pie crust; return to oven. Bake
additional 25-30 minutes or until almost set. (Pie will not test done in
center.) Serve warm or cool with ice cream; drizzle with topping.
Garnish with Kiss. Serves 8-10.

**Fudge Sundae Pie**

½ cup corn syrup 2 tablespoons firmly packed brown sugar

3 tablespoons butter 2 ½ cups Rice Krispies cereal

1 quart ice cream ¼ cup peanut butter

¼ cup fudge sauce for ice cream 3 tablespoons corn syrup

Stir together the ¼ cup corn syrup, brown sugar and butter in
medium-size saucepan. Cook over low heat, stirring occasionally, until
mixture begins to boil. Remove from heat.

Add Rice Krispies cereal, stirring until well coated. Press evenly in 9"
pie plate to form crust. Chill. Allow ice cream to soften slightly.
Spoon into frozen pie crust, spreading evenly. Freeze until firm.

Stir together peanut butter, fudge sauce and the 3 tablespoons corn
syrup. Set aside.

Let pie stand at room temperature about 10 minutes before cutting. Heat
fudge sauce mixture. Drizzle over each piece before serving. 8 servings.

**Creamy Chocolate Pie**

1 (9") baked pastry shell 3 (1-oz.) squares unsweetened chocolate

1 (14-oz.) can Eagle Brand Sweetened ¼ teaspoon salt

Condensed Milk ¼ cup hot water

1 teaspoon vanilla extract 1 cup (½ pint) whipping cream, whipped

In saucepan over medium heat, melt chocolate with sweetened condenses
milk and salt. Cook and stir until thick and fudgy, 5-8 minutes. Add
water; cook and stir until mixture thickens and boils. Remove from heat;
add vanilla. Cool 15 minutes. Chill 20-30 minutes; stir. Fold in whipped
cream. Pour into shell. Chill 3 hours. Garnish as desired.

**German Chocolate Pie**

1 "Deep-Dish" pie crust 1 (4-oz.) package German Sweet Chocolate

¼ cup butter 1 can (13-oz.) Pet Evaporated Milk

1 ½ cups angel flake coconut 3 eggs, slightly beaten

½ cup sugar

Preheat oven and cookie sheet to 400°. In a large saucepan, melt
chocolate and butter. Gradually add milk and coconut. Combine eggs and
sugar and stir into chocolate mixture. Mix well. Pour mixture into pie
crust. Bake about 30 minutes. Cool completely before serving.

**Chocolate Cream Pie**

1 (3-oz.) package cream cheese, softened ½ cup sugar

1 teaspoon vanilla 1/3 cup Hershey's coco

1/3 cup milk 8 oz. non-dairy whipped topping, thawed\*

8 or 9" graham cracker pie crust

Combine cream cheese, sugar and vanilla in small mixer bowl until
blended. Add cocoa alternately with milk, beating until smooth.
Gradually add and fold in non-dairy whipped topping until well combined.
Spoon into pie shell. Chill until firm and or freeze, if desired.

\*2 cups heavy cream and ¼ cup sugar whipped until stiff can be
substituted.

**Weight Watchers' Snicker Pie**

1 cups softened chocolate fat-free 1/3 cup low-fat crunchy peanut butter

Frozen yogurt\* 1 (8-oz.) container fat-free Cool Whip

¼ cup Grape Nuts cereal

Mix all ingredients and put into 9"pie plate. Freeze at least 1 hour
prior to serving. Cut into 8 equal sections. 200 calories per slice. 4
Weight Watcher points.

\*If you can't find chocolate, use chocolate/vanilla swirl.

**Mud Pie**

22 Nilla Wafers, crushed (about ½ cup finely chopped pecans

¾ crumbs) 2 tablespoons butter, melted

1 (8-oz.) package cream cheese, softened ¾ cup powdered sugar

1 ½ cups thawed Cool Whip, divided 1 ¾ cups cold milk

1 (4-oz.) package Jell-O Chocolate Flavor Instant Pudding and Pie

Preheat oven to 375°. Mix wafer crumbs, pecans and butter. Press firmly
onto bottom and up side of 9" pie plate. Bake 10 minutes. Cool.

Beat cream cheese and sugar in large bowl with electric mixer on medium
speed until well blended. Gently stir in 1 cup of the whipped topping;
spread over crust. Pour milk into medium bowl. Add dry pudding mix. Beat
with wire whisk 2 minutes or until well blended. Spoon over cream cheese
layer.

Refrigerate several hours or until set. Top with remaining ½ cup whipped
topping just before serving. Store leftovers in refrigerator.

**Coffee Ice Cream and Oreo Pie**

> Debbie Schmidt

24 Oreo cookies ½ stick butter, melted

1 quart coffee ice cream Chocolate Sauce (recipe below)

8 oz. container Cool Whip Few extra Oreo cookies, crumbled

Crumble 24 Oreo cookies and mix with melted butter. Press in bottom of
pie plate or casserole dish. Put softened coffee ice cream into crust;
smooth out. Cover with chocolate sauce. Add Cool Whip on top. Add few
Oreo cookies, crumbled. Freeze.

*[Chocolate Sauce]{.underline}*:

1 ½ squares of semi-sweet chocolate 1 tablespoon butter

2/3 cup evaporated milk ½ cup sugar

1 teaspoon vanilla

Melt chocolate and butter in boiler. Add other ingredients. Bring to
boil; continue to boil until thick.

**Cherry Chocolate Pie**

6 oz. semi-sweet chocolate, melted 2 (8-oz.) packages cream cheese,
softened

1/3 cup Karo light corn syrup 2 eggs

1/3 cup whipping cream 1 ½ teaspoons vanilla extract

1 (9") graham cracker crust 1 can Lucky Leaf Cherry Pie Filling

Melt chocolate in small saucepan over very low heat, stirring until
completely smooth. Set aside. Beat cream cheese in large bowl with
electric mixer until creamy; then blend in melted chocolate. Gradually
add corn syrup, beating until well blended. Add eggs one at a time,
beating just until blended. Mix in cream and vanilla extract; pour into
pie crust.

Bake in preheated 325° oven for 40-45 minutes until center is almost
set. Cool on wire rack. Cover and refrigerate for at least 3 hours. Top
with cherry pie filling; slice and serve.

**Coconut Pie #1**

> Eliza Bowden

1 stick butter, melted 3 eggs, beaten

1 ½ cups sugar 1 teaspoon vanilla

4 teaspoons lemon juice 1 ½ cups coconut

2 pie shells

Combine all ingredients. Pour into 2 pie shells. Bake for 35 minutes in
preheated 350° oven.

**Coconut Pie #2**

½ stick butter, melted 1 cup sugar

2 eggs, beaten 1 cup milk

¼ cup self-rising flour 1 cup angel flake coconut

½ teaspoon vanilla extract

Combine sugar and flour; mix well. Add remaining ingredients and pour
into a greased pie tin. Bake for 45 minutes in preheated 350° oven.

**Coconut Pie #3**

> Mama Franklin

¾ cup sugar 3 tablespoons flour

2 eggs yolks, beaten 1 whole egg, beaten

¼ teaspoon salt 1 ½ cup milk

¼ stick butter ½ can Angel Flake Coconut

Mix sugar, flour, and salt. Add 2 egg yolks and 1 whole egg and beat
thoroughly. Add milk and butter. Cook in double boiler until thick. Take
off stove and add coconut and mix well. Pour into prepared baked pie
shell. Top with meringue made from the 2 egg whites left over when
separated from yolks. Bake in 375° oven until meringue is brown.

*[Meringue:]{.underline}*

2 egg whites 4 tablespoons sugar

1 teaspoon cream of tartar

Beat egg whites until they hold their shape and are stiff; gradually add
sugar and cream of tartar. Continue to beat until stiff. When spooning
onto pie. Start by dropping spoonfuls around egg of pie shell; sealing
the meringue well with edge of crust. Continue meringue toward center of
pie until all pie is covered with meringue.

**Coconut Pie #4**

½ stick butter 1 cup sugar

2 eggs 1 cup milk

¼ cup self-rising flour 1 cup Angel Flake Coconut

1 teaspoon vanilla

Grease pie tin. Mix all ingredients and pour into pie tin. Bake at 350°
for 45 minutes.

**Surprise Coconut Pie**

> Loette Lee

11 oz. cream cheese, softened 1 can Eagle Brand condensed milk

1 large Cool Whip 3 small graham cracker crusts or 2 large

1 to 1 ½ cups coconut 2/3 cup sliced almonds

1 jar caramel ice cream topping

Toast coconut and almonds in oven; stir and watch closely; do not
overcook. Toast these 2 ingredients in 2 different pans; different time
is needed for these.

Cream the cheese and add condensed milk. Blend well. Fold in cool whip.
Spread a layer of the mixture over each crust. Sprinkle a layer of
coconut and almonds over this. Drizzle with caramel topping. Repeat the
layers.

Freeze. Remove from freezer about 1 hour before serving.

**Pecan Pie #1**

> Mama Franklin

2 eggs ½ cup sugar

1 cup white Karo syrup 2 ½ tablespoons flour

½ stick butter 1 ½ cup pecans

1 tablespoon vanilla 1 unbaked pastry shell

Mix flour, sugar and salt thoroughly. Beat in eggs. Add syrup and melted
butter. Add pecans and vanilla. Pour into unbaked pie shell. Cook at
200° for 30 minutes; then cook at 300° until brown.

**Pecan Pie #2**

> Karo Syrup Bottle

(This is my favorite pecan pie recipe.)

½ cup Light Karo Corn Syrup ½ cup Dark Karo Corn Syrup

3 eggs, beaten 1 cup sugar

2 tablespoons butter, melted 1 teaspoon vanilla extract

1 ½ cups pecans 1 unbaked 9" deep dish pie crust

Stir corn syrups, eggs, sugar, butter and vanilla thoroughly using a
spoon. Mix in pecans. Pour into pie crust. Bake in center rack of oven
for 60-70 minutes in preheated 350° oven. Cool for 2 hours. Store
leftover pie in refrigerator.

Tip: Pie is done when center reaches 200°. Tap center surface of pie
lightly; it should spring back when done. For easy cleanup, spray pan
with cooking spray. If pie crust is over-browning, cover edges with
foil.

**Pecan Tarts**

> Mary Katherine Payne

Dough:

1 (3-oz.) cream cheese, softened ½ cup butter, softened

1 cup all-purpose flour

Blend these ingredients together with hands. Chill for several hours or
overnight (wrapped in wax paper. For 24 small balls for the pie shells.
Using petite muffin tins, put one ball in each cup; press in bottom and
up sides to make small pastry shell.

Filling:

¾ cup chopped pecans 1 egg, beaten

¾ cup light brown sugar 1 tablespoon butter, melted

1 teaspoon vanilla extract Dash of salt

Divide the ¾ cup pecans into the 24 pastry shells. Make the filling by
mixing remaining ingredients. Divide evenly in the 24 shells. Bake for
20 minutes at 400°. These freeze well.

**Pecan Pie Crisp**

> Lenore Vickrey

4 egg whites 1 teaspoon baking powder

1 cup sugar 1 teaspoon vanilla

1 cup vanilla wafer crumbs 1 cup chopped pecans

Beat egg whites until dry; add baking powder and sugar a little at a
time. Add vanilla. Stir in crumbs and pecans. Pour into greased 9" pie
pan. Bake at 350° for 30 minutes. Cool and serve with whipped cream.

**Mini Pecan Pies**

> Rhonda Black

Ready-made pie crust (Pillsbury) 2 beaten eggs

1 cup sugar ½ cup white Karo

1 teaspoon vanilla 1/3 cup milk

1 tablespoon flour 1 cup chopped pecans

Cut the ready-made pie crust to fit muffin tins (either mini, medium or
large)

Mix the beaten eggs, sugar, syrup, milk and vanilla. Add the flour to
the pecans and divide these evenly among the muffin tins. Pour the
liquid mixture over these. Bake in 350° preheated oven until the tarts
are set.

**Raisin Fudge Pecan Pie**

1 cup semisweet chocolate chips ½ cup maple flavor corn syrup

½ cup half-and-half 3 eggs, beaten

1 ½ cups pecan halves 1 cup California raisins

1 unbaked deep dish 9" pie shell

Heat oven to 350°. In small saucepan, combine chocolate chips and syrup.
Cook until chips are melted and mixture is smooth. Stir in
half-and-half. In large bowl, combine chocolate mixture and eggs; beat
until smooth. Stir in pecans and raisins. Pour into pie shell. Bake at
350° for 30-40 minutes or until top is set and knife inserted in center
comes out clean. Cool completely. Store in refrigerator. Top with
whipped cream and sprinkle with cocoa, if desired. Serves 10.

**Fudge Pecan Pie**

½ cup butter 3 tablespoons cocoa

¾ cup hot water 2 cups sugar

½ cup flour 1/8 teaspoon salt

1 teaspoon vanilla 1 small can Pet Evaporated Milk

1 cup pecan halves 1 Deep-dish pie crust shell

1 cup non-dairy whipped topping, thawed

Preheat oven and cookie sheet to 350°. In medium saucepan, melt butter.
Add cocoa and stir until dissolved. Add hot water and stir again. With
wire whip blend in sugar, flour, salt, extract and evaporated milk. Stir
until batter is smooth. Mix in pecans and pour into pie shell. Bake on
preheated cookie sheet for 50 minutes or until a knife inserted 1 inch
from the edge comes out clean. Serve cooled pie with whipped topping.

**Chocolate Pecan Pie**

1 (15-oz.) package Pillsbury All Ready 3 eggs, slightly beaten

Pie Crusts 1 cup Karo Light or Dark Corn Syrup

½ cup sugar ½ cup semisweet chocolate chips, melted

2 tablespoons butter, melted 1 teaspoon vanilla

1 ½ cups pecans

Prepare pie crust according to package directions for filled one-crust
pie using 9" pie pan; flute as desired.

In medium bowl stir eggs, corn syrup, sugar, chocolate, butter and
vanilla until well blended. Stir in pecans. Pour into pie crust-lined
pan. Bake at 350° oven for 50-60 minutes or until knife inserted halfway
between center and edge comes out clean. Cool on wire rack.

**Fudgy Pecan Pie**

1 (9") unbaked pastry shell 1 (4-oz.) package sweet cooking chocolate or

14 cup butter 2 (1-oz.) squares unsweetened chocolate

1 (14-oz.) can Eagle Brand Sweetened ½ cup hot water

Condensed Milk 2 eggs, well beaten

1 teaspoon vanilla extract 1/8 teaspoon salt

1 ¼ cups pecan halves or pieces

Preheat oven to 350°. In medium saucepan, over low heat, melt chocolate
and butter. Stir in milk, hot water and eggs; mix well. Remove from
heat; stir in remaining ingredients. Pour into prepared pastry shell.
Bake 40-45 minutes or until center is set. Cool slightly. Serve warm or
chilled, garnish as desired. Refrigerate leftovers.

**Imitation Pecan Pie**

**(Grape-Nut Cereal Pie)**

½ cup grape nuts ½ cup warm water

¾ cup sugar 3 tablespoons butter

¼ teaspoon salt 3 eggs

2 teaspoons vanilla 1 cup light Karo syrup

Mix sugar, salt and eggs. Stir in syrup. Soak cereal in water until all
water is absorbed. Add to sugar mixture. Bake in 300° oven in unbaked
pie shell.

**Ritz Cracker Torte**

> Lenore Vickrey

½ teaspoon cream of tartar ½ teaspoon vanilla

1 teaspoon salt 3 egg whites

1 cup sugar ¾ cup nuts (pecans)

12-15 Ritz crackers

Beat egg whites until frothy. Add cream of tartar and beat until stiff.
Beat in flavoring. Crush crackers and mix with sugar. Fold into egg
whites into crackers and sugar. Add nuts. Bake in greased pie pan at 325
for 30 minutes. Top with whipped cream or strawberries.

**Peanut Butter Pie**

8-oz. cream cheese, softened ½ cup peanut butter

1 cup powdered sugar ½ cup milk

9-oz. whipped topping 1 (9") graham cracker pie crust

¼ cup chopped nuts, chocolate curls and whipped topping -- for garnish

Whip cream cheese until soft and fluffy. Beat in peanut butter and
powdered sugar. Slowly add milk. Blend thoroughly; then fold in whipped
topping. Pour into crust. Garnish as desired. Refrigerate or freeze.

**Peanut Butter Magic Pie**

1 Graham Cracker pie crust 1 (18-oz.) jar creamy peanut utter

1 (8-oz.) cream cheese, softened ¾ cup honey

1 (8-oz)) Cool Whip, thawed 2 squares semi-sweet baking chocolate

½ teaspoon canola oil

Beat together cream cheese and honey until well mixed. Stir in peanut
butter; mix well. Gently fold in whipped topping. Spoon into crust.
Using a microwave, melt chocolate and canola oil in a glass, liquid
measuring cup for 1 ½ minutes; drizzle over pie. Chill 4 hours.
Refrigerate leftovers.

**Peanuty-Crunch Pie**

1/3 cup peanut butter 1/3 cup corn syrup

2 cups Rice Krispies 1 quart vanilla ice cream

Fresh fruit

In bowl mix peanut butter and corn syrup until blended. Add Rice
Krispies and mix until well-coated. Press mixture evenly and firmly in
buttered 9" pie pan. Chill until firm.

Spread slightly softened ice cream evenly in pie shell. Freeze until
firm. Cut into wedges to serve; top with peach slices or other fresh
fruit.

**Mrs. Salter's Peanut Butter Pie**

1 ½ cups heavy whipping cream\* ¼ cup sugar

8-oz. cream cheese 1 cup peanut butter, creamy or crunchy

1 cup confectioners' sugar 1 graham cracker crust, chocolate

Hershey Bar

Whip cream with sugar (I use Cool Whip and no sugar). Mix all other
ingredients until smooth and fold in whipped cream until well blended.
Pour mixture into a graham cracker crust and chill for several hours
before serving.

Grate one Hershey bar over the top of the pie.

**Decadent Peanut Butter Pie**

1 chocolate cookie pie crust 1 cup creamy peanut butter

8-oz. cream cheese, room temperature ½ cup sugar

12-oz. container Cool Whip 1 (11 ¾-oz.) jar Smucker's Hot Fudge Ice
Cream Topping, divided

*[Drizzle:]{.underline}*

2 tablespoons Hot Fudge

2 tablespoons peanut butter

In a medium bowl, beat together the peanut butter, cream cheese and
sugar. Gently fold in 3 cups whipped topping. Spoon mixture into the pie
shell. Using a spatula, smooth mixture to edges of pie.

Reserving 2 tablespoons of Smucker's Hot Fudge, place remaining
Smucker's Hot Fudge into microwave safe bowl or glass measuring cup.
Microwave for 1 minute. Stir. Spread over pie to cover the peanut butter
layer. Refrigerate until serving time.

Just before serving, spread remaining whipped topping over hot fudge
layer, being careful not to mix the two layers.

Place the 2 tablespoons Smucker's Hot Fudge in a small baggie and knead
for a few seconds. Cut a tiny hole in the corner of the bag and drizzle
over pie. Do the same with the 2 tablespoons peanut butter, going in the
opposite direction of the hot fudge.

**Chocolate Chip Peanut Butter Pie**

Crust:

1 (7.4-oz.) package Martha White 4 tablespoons butter, softened

Chocolate Chip Muffin Mix 1/3 cup salted peanuts, chopped

Filling:

½ cup creamy peanut butter 1 (3-oz.) package cream cheese

1/3 cup sugar 3 tablespoons milk

2 cups Cool Whip

Topping:

2 tablespoons Smucker's Hot Fudge Topping, warmer

Heat oven to 350°. Generously coat 9" pie plate with no-stick cooking
spray. Combine muffin mix, butter and peanuts in a large bowl. Blend
with fork just until crumbly. Press evenly into bottom and up sides of
prepared pie plate. Bake 13 to 16 minutes or until set and light golden
brown. If crust is slightly puffy, press down gently with back of wooden
spoon. Cool.

Beat peanut butter, cream cheese and sugar in large bowl with electric
mixer on medium-high speed until smooth. Beat in milk. Gently fold in
Cool Whip. Spoon into cooked crust. Drizzle warm hot fudge topping over
pie. Chill 3 to 4 hours or until serving. Store covered in refrigerator.

**Fudge Topped Peanut Butter Pie**

1 Graham Cracker Pie Crust 1 (4-oz. serving size) vanilla instant
pudding

1 (8-oz.) sour cream and pie filling mix

¾ cup milk 1 package Reese's Peanut Butter Chips, divided

2 tablespoons canola oil 1 (12-oz.) jar chocolate fudge topping

Whisk together pudding mix, sour cream and milk in medium bowl. Set
aside.

Place 1 1/3 cups peanut butter chips and oil in microwave-safe bowl.
Microwave on HIGH 45 seconds or until smooth. Using hand mixer,
gradually add to pudding mixture; spread evenly into crust.

Spread chocolate fudge topping over pie; cover and refrigerate 3 hours.
Prior to serving, top with remaining peanut butter chips.

**Peanut Lovers' Ice Cream Pie**

24 graham-cracker squares 1/3 cup honey-roasted peanuts

1/3 cup butter, melted 3 pints chocolate ice cream, slightly softened

1 cup plus 1 tablespoon creamy 3 packages (1.44 oz. each) crunchy cookie
cups

Peanut butter (Reese's) cut bite-size

½ cu caramel ice cream topping 1 cup heavy (whipping) cream

¼ cup confectioners' sugar

Garnish: NutRageous and Crunchy Cookie Cup candy bars (Reese's), cut
bite-size, and chopped honey-roasted peanuts

Make crust by combing crushed graham-crackers, peanuts and butter; press
into pie plate.

Put ice cream and the 1 cup peanut butter I a bowl. Stir vigorously
until blended. Spread half in crust; sprinkle with cookie cups. Spread
with remaining ice cream, mounding it slightly in center. Freeze until
firm; about 4 hours.

About 15 minutes before serving: Remove pie from freezer. Mix remaining
1 tablespoon peanut butter with caramel topping. Set aside. Beat cream
and sugar with mixer until soft peaks from when beaters are lifted.
Mound whipped cream on center of pie. Drizzle caramel mixture on dessert
plates; top with pie wedge, then more sauce if desired. (682 calories
per 10 slices).

**Sweet Potato Pie #1**

> Mama Franklin

2 eggs 2 cups sugar

1 stick butter, melted 1 can or 2 cups mashed sweet potatoes

14 teaspoon allspice ¼ teaspoon salt

¾ cup milk 1 pastry shell

Beat eggs; add remaining ingredients and mix well. Pour into pastry
shell; bake at 400° and bake for 20-25 minutes until crusts are brown.

**Sweet Potato Pie #2**

> Eunice Gatlin

3-4 sweet potatoes, boiled, peeled & 3 eggs, beaten

mashed 3-3 ½ cups sugar

1 ½ sticks butter ¼ teaspoon cinnamon

½ cup sweet milk 1 tablespoon vanilla

Stir beaten eggs into sugar. Melt butter in hot potatoes. Add milk,
vanilla and cinnamon. Mix well with mixer. Put in pie crust. Preheat
oven 400°. Bake for 20-25 minutes until crust is brown on top.

[No Fail Pie Crust:]{.underline}

½ cup canola oil ½ cup water

2 cups self-rising flour

Bring to boil: oil and water. Take off stove and add flour. Divide in
half. Roll each between wax paper. Makes 2 pie crusts.

**Perfect Pumpkin Pie**

9" unbaked pastry shell 1 (14-oz.) can Eagle Brand Sweetened

1 (15-oz.) can pumpkin (about 2 cups) Condensed Milk

2 eggs 1 teaspoon ground cinnamon

½ teaspoon ground ginger ½ teaspoon ground nutmeg

½ teaspoon salt

Preheat oven to 425°. With mixer, beat pumpkin, Eagle Brand milk, spices
and salt. Pour into prepared crust. Bake 15 minutes. Reduce oven
temperature to. With mixer, beat pumpkin, Eagle Brand milk, spices and
salt. Pour into prepared crust. Bake 15 minutes. Reduce oven temperature
to 350°; bake 35-40 minutes longer. Cool. Garnish as desired.
Refrigerate leftovers.

**Libby's Famous Pumpkin Pie**

**(This is Lou's favorite.)**

1 9" unbaked deep dish pie shell ¾ cup granulated sugar

½ teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon ground cinnamon

½ teaspoon ginger ¼ teaspoon cloves

2 eggs 1 (5-oz.) can Libby's Solid Pack pumpkin

1 ½ cups evaporated milk Reddi-whip real whipped cream

Combine sugar, salt, cinnamon, ginger and cloves in small bowl. Beat
eggs lightly in large bowl. Stir in pumpkin and sugar-spice mixture.
Gradually stir in evaporated milk. Pour into pie shell. Bake in
preheated 425° oven for 15 minutes. Reduce temperature to 350°, bake for
40-50 minutes or until knife inserted near center comes out clean. Cool
on wire rack for 2 hours. Serve immediately or chill. (Do not freeze as
this will cause filling to separate from crust.) Top with whipped cream
just before serving.

**Impossible Pumpkin Pie**

**The Pie that does the impossible by making its own crust.**

¾ cup sugar ½ cup Bisquick baking mix

1 (13-oz.) can evaporated milk 2 eggs

1 (16-oz.) can pumpkin 2 ½ teaspoons pumpkin pie spice

2 teaspoons vanilla

Heat oven to 350°. Grease pie plate, 9 x 1 ¼ " or 10 x 1 ½ ". Beat all
ingredients until smooth, 1 minute in blender on high or 2 minutes with
hand beater. Pour into plate. Bake until knife inserted in center comes
out clean, 50 to 65 minutes.

**Double Layer Pumpkin Pie**

4 oz. cream cheese, softened 1 tablespoon milk

1 tablespoon sugar 1 (8-oz.) tub Cool Whip, thawed and divided

1 (6-oz.) graham cracker crust 1 cup milk

1 (15-oz.) can pumpkin 2 packages (4-serving each) Jell-O Vanilla flavor

1 teaspoon ground cinnamon instant pudding and pie filling

½ teaspoon ground ginger ¼ teaspoon ground cloves

Mix cream cheese, 1 tablespoon milk and sugar in large bowl with wire
whisk until well blended. Gently stir in half of the whipped topping.
Spread onto the bottom of the crust.

Pour one cup milk in large bowl. Add pumpkin, dry pudding mixes and
spices. Beat with wire whisk 2 minutes or until well blended. (Mixture
will be thick.) Spread over cream cheese layer.

Refrigerate 4 hours or until set. Top with remaining whipped topping
just before serving. Store leftover pie in refrigerator. Makes 10
servings.

**Pumpkin Pie Squares**

Jean Hill

1 cup sifted flour ½ cup quick-cooking oats

½ cup brown sugar, packed ½ cup butter, softened

2 cups canned pumpkin 1 (13 ½ - oz.) can evaporated milk

2 eggs ¾ cup sugar

½ teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon cinnamon

½ teaspoon ginger ¼ teaspoon ground cloves

½ cup chopped pecans ½ cup brown sugar, packed

2 tablespoons butter, softened

Combine flour, oats, ½ cup brown sugar and ½ cup butter. Mix and press
in ungreased 9x13" pan. Bake at 350° for 15 minutes.

Combine pumpkin, evaporated milk, eggs, sugar, salt, ginger, cinnamon
and cloves in bowl; blend well. Pour over cooked crust. Bake 350° for 20
minutes.

Combine pecans, ½ cup brown sugar and 2 tablespoons butter. Sprinkle
over cooked pumpkin filling and bake 15 minutes longer or until the
filling is set. Cool in pan on rack. Makes 2 dozen 2" squares. Top with
Cool Whip is desired.

**Pumpkin Mousse Pie**

1 ¼ cups cold fat-free milk 1 (3-oz.) package vanilla flavor fat-free
sugar-free

1 tablespoon pumpkin pie spice\* instant pudding and pie filling

1 cup canned pumpkin 1 (8-oz.) tub frozen reduced-fat non-dairy whipped

1 Graham Cracker Reduced Fat Pie Crust topping, thawed and divided

In large bowl beat milk, pudding mix and spice with wire whisk for 1 ½
minutes. Whisk in pumpkin. Fold in half of whipped topping. Spread in
crust. Top with remaining whipped topping. Refrigerate at least 2 hours.
Garnish as desired. Store in refrigerator. 8 servings.

\*May substitute 1 ½ teaspoons ground cinnamon, ¾ teaspoon ground ginger
and ¼ teaspoon ground cloves in place of pumpkin pie spice.

**Egg Custard**

> Mama Franklin

¾ cups sugar 3 tablespoons flour

3 eggs, beaten ¼ teaspoon salt

1 ½ cups milk 1 stick butter, melted

2 tablespoons vanilla 1 pastry shell

Mix sugar, flour and salt. Add remaining ingredients and mix well. Bake
pastry shell in preheated 350° for 8-10 minutes until slightly baked (do
not bake until brown). Pour filling into shell and bake pie 30-40
minutes or until table knife inserted into middle of pie comes clean.

**Caramel Pie**

2 cans Eagle Brand milk (unopened) 1 Graham Cracker Crust

Peel paper labels off cans and put them in a deep boiler and simmer for
3 hours. Be sure cans are covered with water. Let cool for 8 hours
(sitting out in kitchen). Pour into graham cracker crust and put in
refrigerator. Serve with whipped cream on top.

**MAMA BUCK's Strawberry Chiffon Pie**

Chill (in freezer) 1 large carnation evaporated milk (about 1 hr. works
for me)

1 cup sugar, 2 eggs, small crushed pineapple==cook until thickens

Add small strawberry Jell-O

Whip evaporated milk until stiff and add to above mixture.

Pour into a prepared graham crust. (makes 2 8" pies)

I also have put in sherbet or wine glasses as a parfait and served with
cookies, etc.

Makes Great Valentine Dessert per Mama Buck.

(and even better when served with special friends.)

**Pie Crusts**

**Basic Pastry -- 9" Pie Crust #1**

> Marsha McGehee

1 ¼ cups all-purpose flour ½ teaspoon salt

1/3 cup plus 2 tablespoons shortening 3 to 4 tablespoons cold water

(I use Crisco)

Combine flour and salt; cut in shortening wit pastry blender until
mixture resembles coarse meal. Sprinkle ice water (1 tablespoon at a
time) evenly over surface; stir with a fork until dry ingredients are
moistened. Shape into a ball; chill.

Roll chilled dough to 1/2" thickness on a lightly floured surface. Place
in pie plate; trim off excess. Fold edges under and flute.

For baked pastry shell, prick bottom and sides of shell with a fork.
Bake at 450° for 10-12 minutes or until golden brown.

**Classic Crisco Pie Crust**

(For double crust 9" pie)

2 cups Pillsbury Best All-Purpose Flour 1 teaspoon salt

¾ cup well chilled Crisco baking sticks 4-8 tablespoons ice cold water

or Crisco shortening

Blend flour and salt in mixing bowl. Cut cubed, chilled shortening into
flour mixture using a pastry blender until mixture resembles coarse
crumbs with pea-sized pieces remaining. Sprinkle 4 tablespoons ice water
over flour mixture; mix gently with a fork. Add more water by the
tablespoon, mixing until dough holds together. Divide dough into two,
with one ball slightly larger than the other. Flatten dough into ½"
thick round disks, wrap in plastic wrap; refrigerate at least 30
minutes. Place larger disk on dough on lightly floured surface. With
floured rolling pin, roll dough outward from center into circle 2" wider
than pie plate. Ease bottom crust into pie plate and trim evenly around
plate. Fill unbaked pie crust according to recipe directions. Roll top
pie crust; lift onto filled pie. Trim dough with ¾" overhang; fold top
edge under bottom crust. Press edges together with flute. Cut slits in
top crust. Bake pie according to recipe directions.

**Pie Crust**

> Joan Mathison

1 ½ cups sifted plain flour ½ teaspoon salt

½ cup Crisco shortening 2 ½ tablespoons ice water

Blend flour and salt in mixing bowl. Cut cubed shortening into flour
mixture using a pastry blender until mixture resembles coarse crumbs.
Sprinkle with ice water. Hand-knead until ball is formed. Roll out on
lightly floured surface. It will break when you try to put in pan; so
piece together.

Bake fast to keep from drying - 450° until lightly browned.

**Pastry for Pies (2 Crusts)**

> Mama Franklin

2 cups plain flour 1 teaspoon salt

¾ cup Crisco shortening 4 tablespoons ice cold water

Mix flour and salt in bowl. Cut in Crisco shortening until it looks like
meal bran. Add water gradually and mix into 2 equal sized balls. Roll
out on floured board for pie pan.

**Pie Crust**

2 cups all-purpose flour 1 teaspoon sugar

1 teaspoon salt ½ cup vegetable oil

¼ cup milk

Mix flour, sugar and salt. Pour oil into glass measuring cup to ½ cup
level. Pour milk into cup to ¾ cup level. Do not mmix these, just let
them layer out. Dump liquids into the flour mixture and stir vigorously
until the dough makes a ball. Meld into a uniform ball with your hands.
Roll out between two pieces of waxed paper. Peel off top piece of waxed
paper. Slide your hand under bottom piece of waxed paper with rolled
crust on it, then invert into a pie plate. THEN peel off that piece of
waxed paper. Trim crust and flute edges. This makes a 1 crust 9" pie
shell with some left over. Reroll this and make squares of pie crust for
short cakes or to top cobblers. Prick crust with a fork and bake until
golden brown at 400°.

**Nina's 9" Pie Crust**

Nina Rainwater

1 cup plain flour ½ teaspoon salt

1/3 cup butter-flavor shortening 2-3 tablespoons water

Mix flour and salt. Blend in shortening. Add water and stir into a ball.
Roll out to fit pie dish.

**Turnover Pastry**

1 ½ sticks butter, softened 8 ounces cream cheese, softened

2 cups all-purpose flour 1 cup whole wheat flour

1 teaspoon baking powder 4 tablespoons water

1 teaspoon vinegar 1 egg combined with 2 tablespoons water

Cream together butter and cream cheese. Combine all-purpose flour and
whole wheat flour with baking powder. Cut the butter mixture into the
flour mixture using a pastry blender.

Combine the water and the vinegar and sprinkle over the mixture. Blend
with fork until the mixture comes together. Gather into a ball, wrap in
plastic wrap and refrigerate for 1 hour.

Roll out on a lightly floured surface to about a 1/8" thick. Using a 6"
cutter or a 6" saucer, cut into circles -- Or cut into 6" squares to
make triangles.

Reroll scraps. Fill each round with 2 heaping tablespoons of filling
mixture. Brush egg glaze around edge of pastry. Fold in half and press
edges with fork. Brush with egg glaze if desired.

Bake in a 400° oven on a greased cookie sheet 10 to 15 minutes for the
small size, 15 to 20 minutes for the large size.

Makes about 40 to 50 3" turnovers and 16 to 20 6" turnovers.

Turnovers may be baked and frozen. To reheat, place frozen in a 250°
oven and bake 25 to 30 minutes.

**Rich Flaky Dough for Pastry Shells**

> Helen Foster Gewin

1 cup salted butter 2 cups sifted all-purpose flour

1 egg yolk ¾ cup sour cream

Mix flour and butter until mixture resembles coarse crumbs. Combine egg
yolk with sour cream. Add to flour mixture and knead. Roll into a ball;
cover and refrigerate at least 8 hours. Divide in small balls and roll
flat to fit large muffin tins. Bake fast to keep from drying - 400°
until lightly browned.

**Meringue for Pie**

> Marsha McGehee

3-4 egg whites ½ teaspoon cream of tartar

¼ cup plus 2 tablespoons sugar

Beat egg whites and cream of tartar at high speed of an electric mixer 1
minute. Gradually add ¼ cup plus 2 tablespoons sugar, 1 tablespoon at a
time, beating until stiff peaks form and sugar dissolves (2-4 minutes.)

**Meringue for Pie**

> Mama Franklin

2 egg whites 4 tablespoons sugar

Beat egg whites at high speed of an electric mixer until peaks start to
form. Add sugar, one tablespoon at time while continuing to beat until
stiff peaks form and sugar is dissolved.

.
