# Salads

**Bing Cherry-Cola Salad**

1 large package of black cherry Jell-O 1 can Bing cherries (or black
cherries)

1 large can pineapple, crushed 1 package creamed cheese, large

½ cup nuts (optional) 1 (10-oz.) coke (or most of a 16-oz. one)

Drain cherry juice and pineapple juice into boiler. Bring to boil. Add
Jell-O and creamed cheese. Beat to dissolve. Add remaining ingredients
and refrigerate.

**Black Cherry Wine Mold**

1 (1-lb.) can dark sweet cherries, pitted 1 (3-oz.) package cherry
Jell-O

1 cup red wine Water

Drain cherries, saving syrup. Add enough water to make 2 ½ cups liquid.
Bring to boil. Add to gelatin, stirring until gelatin is dissolved. Add
wine. Chill and when slightly thickened, add cherries. Mold. Serve with
sour cream dressing.

**Congealed Blueberry Salad-Dessert**

2 small packages grape or blueberry Jell-O 2 cups boiling water

1 can blueberry pie filling 1 large can crushed pineapple, undrained

Creamed Cheese Topping Chopped pecans

Dissolve Jell-O in boiling water. Add blueberry pie filling and
pineapple. Mix and chill. When thick, add creamed cheese layer. Sprinkle
with chopped pecans on top.

*[Creamed Cheese Topping]{.underline}*:

8 oz. cream cheese, softened 1 cup sour cream

½ cup sugar 1 teaspoon vanilla

Beat all ingredients well with electric mixer. Spread over set Jell-O
layer. Top with chopped pecans.

**Pineapple-Cranberry Relish**

1 can (20-oz.) crushed pineapple 1 large thin-skinned navel orange,
unpeeled

1 package (12-oz.) fresh cranberries, washed 1 cup sugar

Drain syrup from pineapple. Chop orange and cranberries until cut into
coarse pieces either in

food processor or blender. Pour into a bowl. Add pineapple and sugar.
Cover with plastic wrap.

Stand at room temperature overnight. Store in refrigerate. Makes 4 cups.

**Cranberry Mousse**

1 can (20-oz.) crushed pineapple, undrained 1 (6-oz.) package strawberry
Jell-O

1 cup water 1 can (1-lb.) whole cranberry sauce

3 tablespoons fresh lemon juice 1 teaspoon fresh grated lemon peel

¼ teaspoon nutmeg 2 cups sour cream

½ cup pecans, chopped

Drain pineapple well, reserving all juice. Add juice to Jell-O in a
2-quart saucepan. Stir in water. Heat to boiling, stirring to dissolve
Jell-O. Remove from heat. Blend in cranberry sauce, lemon juice and peel
and nutmeg. Chill until mixture thickens slightly. Blend sour cream into
gelatin mixture. Fold in pineapple and pecans. Pour into a 2-quart mold.
Chill until firm. Unmold onto serving plate. Serves 8.

**Norma Pass' Cranberry Relish**

Norma Pass (Mack Ferguson's Mother/Ginger's grandmother)

1 packaged unflavored gelatin 1 large sugar-free strawberry Jell-O

1 package cranberries 2 oranges

2 cups sugar ½ cup chopped nuts

Wash cranberries and grind with oranges. (Shirley Ferguson removes a
little of the orange peel

so it won't be bitter.) Put 2 cups sugar on it and set aside for 15
minutes. Mix ½ cup cold water

and gelatin. Mix 3 ½ cups boiling water and Jell-O. Mix Jell-O and
gelatin together. Cool. Mix

cranberries, oranges and nuts in Jell-O. Refrigerate.

**Cranberry Relish Mold**

1 (9-oz.) can crushed pineapple 1 (3-oz.) package dark cherry Jell-O

½ cup sugar (or Splenda) 1 tablespoon lemon juice

1 cup ground fresh cranberries 1 small unpeeled orange (seeds removed),

1 cup chopped celery ground

½ cup nuts, chopped (optional)

Make Jell-O according to directions on box. Stir in remaining
ingredients and refrigerate. After

15-20 minutes, stir again to blend ingredients evenly.

**Spicy Cranberry-Orange Mold**

2 packages (4-serving size) orange or lemon Jell-O 1 ½ cups boiling
water

½ cup cold water 1 tablespoon lemon juice

¼ teaspoon cinnamon 1/8 teaspoon cloves

1 can (16-oz.) whole berry cranberry sauce 1 orange, sectioned and diced

½ cup chopped walnuts 12 oz. Cool Whip

Dissolve Jell-O in boiling water. Add cold water, lemon juice and
spices. Refrigerate until thickened. Fold in cranberry sauce, orange and
walnuts and thawed frozen whipped topping.

**Cranberry Salad**

2 cups ground cranberries 2 oranges, cored and ground

2 apples, cored and ground 1 can crushed pineapple with juice

1 cup chopped nuts Either 4 (3-oz.) black cherry or raspberry

2 cups boiling water Jell-O

Dissolve Jell-O in water. Add ½ cup cold water. Pour all fruits into it
and mold.

**Hot Fruit Salad**

Layer in oven proof dish in the following order:

1-16 oz. can sliced peaches, drained

1-16 oz. can pineapple chunks, drained

1-16 oz. can apricot halves, drained

1-16 oz. can Bartlett pears, drained

1-16 oz. jar apple rings, drained

Sauce:

1 cup brown sugar

1 cup sherry (if you do not have sherry, use a combination of sauterne
and burgundy)

1 stick butter

2 tablespoons corn starch

Combine sugar, sherry, butter and cornstarch in top of a double boiler.
Cook until thickens. Pour over fruit and heat for 15-20 minutes at 350°.
Serves 6.

Note: I usually prepare the day before and marinate in refrigerator
overnight or until ready to serve. It keeps for several days and does
not hurt to reheat. The longer it stays, the tastier it becomes.

**Partridge in a Pear Tree Mold**

1 E-Z Foil Christmas Tree Cake Pan

1 can (16-oz.) pear halves, drained 9-11 maraschino cherries, without
stems

2 packages (4-serving size) lime Jell-O 2 cups boiling water

1 cup cold water 1 cup thawed Cool Whip

Place tree pan on large tray for easy transfer to refrigerator.\*\*

Cut 1 pear half into 8 slices; dice remaining pears. Place slices and
cherries on bottom of tree mold. Dissolve 1 package Jell-O in 1 cups
boiling water. Add ½ cup cold water; refrigerate until thickened.
Carefully pour over fruit in bold. Push fruit down if it floats.
Refrigerate until set but not firm. Dissolve remaining package of Jell-O
in remaining boiling water. Add remaining cold water. Refrigerate until
slightly thickened. Stir in whipped topping and diced pears. Spoon over
gelatin in mold. Refrigerate until firm, about 4 hours. Unmold. Garnish
with candy canes, if desired. Makes 10 servings.

\*\*The recipe does not indicate, but I spray the foil pan well with
spray so the Jell-O will come out clean.

**Pineapple Lime Mold**

1 ½ cups cold water 1 (3-oz.) package lime Jell-O

1 tablespoon lemon juice 1 (8-oz.) package cream cheese, softened

2 (8-oz.) cans crushed pineapple, drained 1 ½ cups miniature
marshmallows

½ cup chopped nuts, optional Shredded lettuce

Bring 1 cup water to boil; stir in Jell-O until dissolved. Add remaining
½ cup water and juice. Gradually add Jell-O to cream cheese, mixing
until blended. Chill until thickened, but not set. Fold in pineapple,
marshmallows and nuts. Pour into 1-quart mold; chill until firm. Unmold
onto serving plate; surround with lettuce. Serve with assorted fresh
fruit and nuts. 6 servings.

**Congealed Salad #1**

1 large strawberry Jell-O 1 can whole cranberry sauce

2 cups boiling water 1 can crushed pineapple with juice

1 cup chopped nuts

Dissolve Jell-O in 1 cups boiling water. Add cranberry sauce and mash
well. Add pineapple and nuts and put in mold, sprayed with vegetable
stray. You can use muffin tins to make individual servings, but be sure
and spray well for removing easily.

**Congealed Salad #2**

1 can (20-oz.) crushed pineapple in juice 2 (3-oz.) packages raspberry
Jell-O

1 can (16-oz.) whole berry cranberry sauce 2/3 cups chopped walnuts

1 apple, chopped

Drain pineapple, reserving juice. Add enough water to juice to measure 2
½ cups; pour into saucepan; bring to a boil. Pour over Jell-O mixes in
large bowl; stir 2 minutes until completely dissolved. Stir in
pineapple, cranberry sauce, walnuts and apple. Spoon into 24 paper-lined
muffin cups. Refrigerate until firm or overnight. Remove liners. Makes
24 servings.

**Strawberry Salad with Pretzel Crust #1**

4 oz. pretzels (broken into small pieces) ¼ cup melted reduced fat
butter

3 tablespoons sugar 1 (8-oz.) reduced fat cream cheese

1 (8-oz.) fat free Cool Whip 1 (6-oz.) strawberry sugar free Jell-O

1 ½ cups boiling water 2 cups frozen strawberries

Mix pretzels, butter and sugar; line bottom of 11x9" pan; bake at 400°
for 8 minutes. Cool completely. Beat cream cheese and stir in Cool Whip.
Spread evenly over cooled crust. Dissolve Jell-O in hot water and stir
in frozen strawberries. Cool until partially set. Pour over cream cheese
mixture and refrigerate overnight. Makes 15 servings -- 2 ½ points each
serving.

**Strawberry Pretzel Salad or Dessert #2**

*[Crust:]{.underline}*

2 cups coarsely crushed pretzels 2 tablespoons sugar

¾ cup butter, melted

Mix ingredients for crust. Press into 9x13" pan and bake at 350° for 10
minutes. Cool.

*[Filling:]{.underline}*

8 oz. low-fat cream cheese, softened ¾ cup sugar

8 oz. frozen whipped topping, thawed 1 (6-oz.) package strawberry Jell-O

2 cups boiling water 2 cups frozen strawberries

Cream sugar and cream cheese; fold in whipped topping. Spread over cool
crust and refrigerate. Mix Jell-O and boiling water until dissolved.
Stir in berries. Let partly set. Spool over refrigerated mixture and
chill until firm.

**Pistachio Salad**

> C.J. Savage

1 box pistachio pudding 1 small can crushed pineapple, undrained

1 large Cool Whip ½ cup nuts

Mix all ingredients and refrigerate.

**Strawberry Cream Squares**

2 (3-oz.) packages strawberry Jell-O 2 cups boiling water

2 (10-oz.) packages frozen strawberries 1 (13 1/2-oz.) can crushed
pineapple

2 large ripe bananas, finely diced 1 cup sour cream

Dissolve Jell-O in boiling water. Add frozen strawberries; stir until
thawed. Add pineapple and bananas. Pour half of mixture into 8x8x2" pan.
Chill until firm. Spread evenly with 1 cup sour cream. Pour remaining
Jell-O mixture on top. Chill until firm. Cut into 9 squares. Top with a
dollop of sour cream.

**Strawberry Jell-O Salad**

1 large strawberry Jell-O 1 pint sour cream

1 small can crushed pineapple 3 medium bananas

½ cup chopped pecans 1 pound frozen strawberries

Mix Jell-O according to directions. Add drained pineapple, mashed
bananas, strawberries and pecans. Chill ½ of mixture until firm. Spread
with sour cream. Add remaining mixture and chill again until firm.

**Pickled Peach Salad**

> Berta Holding

1 jar Royale Cherries drained and take out pits 1 jar pickled peaches,
drained and keep

> and keep liquid liquid separate from other liquid

½ cup nuts 1/3 cup ginger marmalade

1 ¾ cup juices from berries

Boil juices. Dissolve 2 (3-oz.) packages lemon Jell-O in juices. Add 12
ice cubes to Jell-O and

stir until dissolved. Add fruit and refrigerate.

**First Date Tailgate Pasta Salad\***

1 (16-oz.) package macaroni shells 1 (12-oz.) jar corn relish

1 (4-oz.) jar pimentos ½ cup diced green peppers

1 tablespoon chopped parsley or cilantro 2 tablespoons chopped onion,
optional

1 cup mayonnaise ½ cup sour cream

¼ cup milk 1 ½ teaspoons salt

Boil pasta; drain and let cool slightly. (It may be necessary to
separate the shells if they have "nested.") Add relish, pimentos,
peppers, parsley and onion to macaroni; mix well. Combine mayonnaise,
sour cream, milk and toss lightly with macaroni mixture. Refrigerate
before serving for several hours or overnight. Garnish with paprika and
parsley before serving.

*\*(University of Georgia tailgater Hank Henley, who prepared it for his
wife, Auburn fan Teri Kline Henley, on their first date)*

**Spicy Slaw**

> Rose Beasley

1 cabbage, chopped 1 small onion, chopped

1 small jar dill cubes 2 fresh ripe tomatoes, chopped

2-3 tablespoons mayonnaise Tony's Seafood Seasoning, to taste

Salt and pepper, to taste

Mix all ingredients and chill; serve.

**Slaw #1**

> Jane Morgan

1 large head cabbage, shredded Prepared dressing\*

1 (3-oz.) package Roman noodles ½ cup toasted almonds

2 teaspoons sesame seeds

Make *[Dressing]{.underline}*:

½ cup sugar ½ cup vinegar

1 teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon dry mustard

1 teaspoon dill seed ½ cup oil

Mix all ingredients well. Pour over shredded cabbage and refrigerate.
Right before ready to serve, add Roman noodles, broken well, almonds and
sesame seeds. Serve immediately.

**Slaw #1**

Ginger Windham

1 large head cabbage, shredded or 1 package Prepared dressing\*

Angel shredded cabbage 1 (3-oz.) package Roman noodles, oriental

½ cup toasted almonds 2 teaspoons sesame seeds

2-3 tablespoons butter

Make *[Dressing]{.underline}*:

½ cup sugar 1/3 cup vinegar

½ cup oil Packet of spices from noodles

Make dressing by combining all ingredients. Break noodles and add
almonds and seeds. Melt butter in skillet; spread noodle mixture and
toast in butter. Keep noodle mixture for later. Pour dressing over
shredded cabbage and refrigerate. Right before ready to serve, add
noodle mixture. Serve immediately.

**Slaw #2**

4 cups cabbage, shredded 4 cups small broccoli flowerets

1 ¼ cup craisins ½ cup walnuts

½ cup golden raisins ½ cup onion, optional

6 slices cooked, crisp bacon, crumbled 1 cup mayonnaise

¼ cup sugar 1 tablespoon vinegar

Mix all ingredients except bacon well and refrigerate. Add crumbled
bacon when ready to serve.

**Overnight Slaw**

¼ - ½ cup sugar substitute ¼ cup lemon juice

¼ cup white vinegar 1 teaspoon celery salt

1 teaspoon garlic salt 1 small head cabbage, shredded

3 ribs celery, chopped ½ green bell pepper, chopped

¼ cup chopped fresh chives ¼ cup sliced radishes

In a large bowl, whisk together the sugar substitute, lemon juice,
vinegar, celery salt and garlic salt. Add the cabbage, celery, green
pepper and chives; toss lightly. Cover and refrigerate overnight. Add
the radishes immediately before serving. Makes 4 servings.

**Cabbage Salad #1**

1 head cabbage, grated or chopped 1 bell pepper, chopped

1 large onion, chopped 1 cup water

1 cup white vinegar 2 cups sugar

½ teaspoon turmeric 1 teaspoon celery seed

½ teaspoon mustard seed

Prepare cabbage, bell pepper and onion and set aside. Mix remaining
ingredients and boil together. Pour over vegetables and marinate 24
hours or longer.

**Cabbage Salad #2**

> Linda Owens

1 head cabbage, chopped or shredded 1 onion, chopped

1 cup sugar 1 cup vinegar

¾ cup oil 1 teaspoon salt

1 teaspoon dry mustard 1 teaspoon celery seed

Prepare cabbage and onion; pour sugar over vegetables and set aside.
Combine all other ingredients and bring to boil. Pour over the vegetable
mixture and refrigerate overnight.

**Cauliflower-Broccoli Salad**

1 bunch broccoli flowerets 1 head cauliflower, divided into small pieces

3 small yellow squash, sliced in small rings ¼ cup chopped nuts

¼ cup raisins, or more ¼ cup red onion, optional

6 strips bacon, fried and crumbled Mayonnaise Dressing

Combine all ingredients except bacon and nuts. Prepare Mayonnaise
Dressing and add to vegetables. When ready to serve, add crisp, crumbled
bacon.

[Mayonnaise Dressing]{.underline}:

½ cup mayonnaise ½ cup apple cider vinegar

½ cup sugar

Mix and pour over salad.

**Corn-Tomato Salad**

2 large cans corn, drained 1 large tomato, seeded and diced

1 bell pepper, finely chopped ¼ cup finely chopped onion

4 tablespoon s mayonnaise 1 teaspoon dry mustard

2 teaspoons salt ½ cup sour cream

¼ teaspoon pepper 2 tablespoons vinegar

Combine vegetables in a salad bowl. Mix mayonnaise, mustard, salt, sour
cream, pepper and vinegar until well-blended. Fold into salad until all
vegetables are well-coated. Chill before serving.

**Calico Bean Salad**

> Olivet Willis

1 can cut green beans, drained and rinsed 1 can cut yellow beans,
drained and rinsed

1 can red kidney beans, drained and rinsed 1 small green pepper, cut in
small pieces

1 onion, cut in small pieces 1 can English Peas, drained

¾ cup sugar 1 teaspoon salt

½ teaspoon pepper 1/3 cup salad oil

2/3 cup vinegar

Add all ingredients. Make ahead and let stand refrigerated to marinade.
Serves 6-8.

**German Potato Salad**

1 tablespoon salt 1 cup sugar

½ cup cider vinegar ½ cup water

¼ teaspoon pepper 5 pounds red or white potatoes

6 slices bacon, cooked and crumbled ½ cup vegetable oil

Combine salt, sugar, vinegar, water and pepper in saucepan. Simmer until
sugar is dissolved. Boil potatoes in their skins until just done. Do not
overcook. Peel and slice potatoes into thin layers. While the potato
slices are still hot, pour the marinade over them and allow to sit for
at least 1 hour. The longer they sit, the stronger the flavor will be.
Add onion and bacon bits to the potatoes. Just before serving, drain off
the marinade and add the oil. (Some will use the grease from the fried
bacon instead of oil.) Toss until the potatoes are well coated.

**Southern Sweet Potato Salad**

> Elizabeth Lowe (given to me by Marian Parker)

2 lbs. sweet potatoes, peeled, cut in ½ inch cubes 2 tablespoons fresh
lemon juice

1 cup mayonnaise 2 tablespoons orange juice

1 tablespoon honey 1 teaspoon grated orange zest

½ teaspoon ground ginger ¼ teaspoon salt

1/8 teaspoon ground nutmeg 1 cup sliced celery

1 cup dates, chopped ½ cup chopped pecans

1 (11-oz.) can mandarin oranges, drained Lettuce leaves

Cook sweet potatoes in boiling, salted water until tender (5-8 minutes).
Drain and toss with lemon juice. Combine orange juice, honey, orange
zest, ginger, salt and nutmeg. Add potatoes, celery and dates. Toss to
cover. Cover and chill. Before serving, gently stir in pecans. Line a
serving platter with lettuce leaves. Arrange salad on platter. Around
salad arrange mandarin orange segments.

*(This recipe is from the dietitian at Oak Grove Inn.)*

**Tossed Salad**

> Ann Newell

Sugared almonds\* Lettuce, iceberg and/or Romaine

Celery, sliced Strawberries, sliced

Grapes, halved Mandarin Oranges

Prepare *[Dressing]{.underline}*:

1 ½ teaspoon salt ¾ teaspoon tabasco

¾ cup oil 6 tablespoons apple cider vinegar

6 tablespoons sugar

Mix all ingredients in microwave safe measuring cup. Microwave on high
for 1 minute. Add to all mixed salad ingredients and serve immediately.

\*Sugared almonds: In heavy skillet place almonds with sugar to coat and
cook over medium heat until almonds are sugared. Remove immediately from
heat.

**Mrs. Burton's Taco Salad**

1 head lettuce, chopped fine ½ head cabbage, chopped fine

1 onion, chopped (optional) 2 ribs celery, chopped

2 carrots, grated 2 tomatoes, chopped

1 cup cheese, grated ½ cup mayonnaise

5 tablespoons sugar Salt and pepper to taste

1 small package nacho chips, crushed Catalina Dressing

Mix all ingredients except chips and Catalina Dressing. Add chips and
stir and then add dressing just before serving; mix.

Variations: Add 1 pound cooked, drained and cooled ground beef

**Bologna Salad**

> C.J. Savage\*

2 lbs. bologna, ground 3 hard-boiled eggs, chopped fine

½ jar pickle relish Small jar Kraft sandwich spread

1 teaspoon vinegar Salt and pepper to taste

Mix all ingredients together and chill.

\*Elery Savage used to bring this to lunch for him and Pop. Pop really
liked it and thought it made great sandwiches.

**Crunchy Walnut Salad**

> Florence Wilson

1 cup walnuts 1 package Ramien noodles (crushed)

4 tablespoons butter

Melt butter in jelly roll pan in 350°; add noodles and walnuts. Bake
until brown. (Stir if needed.) Drain on paper towels.

Combine:

Romaine lettuce, chopped

Feta Cheese, crumbled

Sliced strawberries

(Amounts on these may vary, depending on your preference.)

Dressing:

1 cup canola oil 1 cup white granulated sugar

½ cup red wine vinegar 3 teaspoons soy sauce

Salt and pepper to taste (optional -- I don't use these)

Mix ingredients and shake dressing vigorously! Add dressing right before
serving.

**Nick's Favorite Red Dressing\***

> Pam Clapp

½ cup oil ¼ cup catsup

¼ cup cider vinegar ¼ cup sugar

2 tablespoons honey, optional 1 teaspoon onion salt

1 teaspoon Worcestershire sauce

Combine and shake all ingredients. Refrigerate.

\*Pam Clapp shared this recipe with me. She served it over fresh spinach
leaves and boiled egg slices on top of leaves. Pop and I really enjoy
this.

**Maple Salad Dressing\***

¼ cup mayonnaise ¼ cup maple syrup

3 tablespoons vinegar 2 teaspoons sugar

½ cup vegetable oil

Mix all ingredients well. Serve over salad made with Romaine lettuce,
chopped apple, craisins and pecans.

\*When Avery was born, one of Sam and Amy's church friends brought this
to dinner. It was delicious.

**Honey Mustard Dressing**

> Mr. Food -- from Nina Rainwater

1 ¼ cup mayonnaise 1/3 cup honey

2/3 cup salad oil 1 tablespoon vinegar

2 tablespoons parsley 2 tablespoons yellow mustard

1 teaspoon onion flakes

Mix ingredients and refrigerate.

**Family French Dressing**

½ cup Heinz ketchup ½ cup salad oil

¼ cup apple cider vinegar 2 teaspoons confectioners' sugar

1 clove garlic, split (optional) ¼ teaspoon salt

Dash pepper

Combine ingredients and shake vigorously. Chill to blend flavors. Remove
garlic; shake again before serving. Makes 1¼ cups.

**Dressing for Slaw**

1/3 cup oil ¼ cup sugar

1 teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon pepper

6 tablespoons sugar

**[OR]{.underline}**

½ cup sugar ¼ cup rice vinegar

¼ cup oil

Mix either ingredients and refrigerate until ready to add to slaw

**Citrus Dressing**

¼ cup lemon juice from concentrate 3 tablespoons orange juice

3 tablespoons vegetable oil 2 teaspoons sugar

¼ teaspoon garlic salt 1/8 teaspoon celery seed

In cruet, combine ingredients; shake well. Chill to blend flavors

**Raspberry Dressing**

> Betty Henry

2 cups mayo 2/3 cup sugar

1/3 cup light cream 1/3 cup raspberry vinegar

2 Tablespoons poppy seeds 2 or 3 tablespoons raspberry jam

Mix together. Will keep a week or two refrigerated.
