**Lemon Sauce**

> Lola Tarrants

1 stick butter 1 cup sugar

1 beaten egg Juice and zest from one lemon

Melt and cook butter and sugar until clear. Remove from heat and let
cool. Add 1 beaten egg (make sure it is cool enough so egg doesn't
curdle.) Add jest and juice from one lemon. (Taste and make sure it has
enough lemon; if not, add more lemon juice.)

This is really good served over gingerbread.

**Blueberry/Lemon Sauce**

6 tablespoons sugar 4 teaspoons cornstarch

4 teaspoons fresh lemon juice 1 cup water

2 ½ cups fresh blueberries, divided 1 teaspoon lemon peel

Whisk sugar, cornstarch and lemon juice until cornstarch is dissolved.
Add 1 cup water and ½ of blueberries. Bring to a boil. Reduce heat and
simmer 2 minutes, crushing blueberries with a potato masher. Remove from
heat and stir in remaining blueberries and lemon peel. Serve warm or
room temperature over ice cream.

**(Cheese) Mornay Sauce**

1 tablespoon butter 1 tablespoon flour

1/8 teaspoon white pepper 1 small can evaporated milk (2/3 cup)

2/3 cup water 1 envelope instant chicken broth, or 1 teaspoon

1 egg yolk granulated chicken bouillon

½ cup shredded Swiss cheese

Melt butter in a small saucepan; stir in flour and pepper. Cook stirring
constantly, until bubbly. Stir in evaporated milk, water and chicken
broth; continue cooking and stirring until mixture thickens and boils 1
minute.

Beat egg yolk slightly in a small bowl; slowly beat in half of the hot
mixture, then beat back into remaining mixture in pan. Cook, stirring
constantly, 1 minute. (Do not boil.) Stir in cheese until melted. Serve
hot over poached fish.

*[Parmesan Sauce:]{.underline}*

Prepare recipe above. Using only 1/3 cup water and ¼ cup grated Parmesan
cheese instead of Swiss. Stir in ¼ cup chopped parsley. Serve hot over
baked potatoes. Makes 1 cup.

**Basic Cheese Sauce**

2 tablespoons butter 2 tablespoons flour

½ teaspoon dry mustard ¼ teaspoon salt

1/8 teaspoon seasoned pepper 1 cup milk

1 teaspoon Worcestershire sauce 1 cup shredded process American cheese

Melt butter in a small saucepan; stir in flour, mustard, salt and
seasoned pepper; cook, stirring constantly, until bubbly. Stir in milk
and Worcestershire; continue cooking and stirring until sauce thickens
and boils 1 minute. Stir in cheese until melted. Serve hot over
broccoli, green beans or cauliflower.

*[Chili-Cheese Sauce]{.underline}*:

Prepare recipe above, using ½ cup beef broth and 1 can (8-oz.)
chili-without beans instead of milk. Serve hot over frankfurters or
hamburgers. Makes about 2 cups.

*[Tomato-Cheese Sauce:]{.underline}*

Prepare recipe above, using only ½ cup milk; stir in 1 can (6-oz.)
tomato juice. Serve hot over sliced hard-cooked eggs on toast. Makes
about 1 ¾ cups.

**Sauce Provencale**

½ teaspoon diet butter 2 tablespoons finely chopped onion

1 can (8 ¼ oz.) stewed tomatoes ½ clove garlic

1/8 teaspoon dried thyme leave

Sauté onion in hot butter in small saucepan until tender for 5 minutes.
Add tomatoes, garlic and thyme. Cook, stirring, over medium heat for 10
minutes. Makes 1 cup\...

This with broccoli casserole makes 4 servings -125 calories each.

**Sweet and Sour Barbecue Sauce**

1 ½ cups chili sauce or barbecue sauce ½ cup grape jelly

1 teaspoon liquid smoke Juice of one lemon

In a medium saucepan, combine ingredients and heat thoroughly. Brush on
meat during the last 10 to 15 minutes of cooking time. This sauce pairs
well with chicken or pork chops.

**Savory Barbecue Sauce**

2 medium onions, finely chopped 3 garlic cloves, minced

3 tablespoons vegetable oil 3 cups catsup

3 tablespoons liquid smoke ½ cup brown sugar, packed

½ cup cider vinegar 1 teaspoon dry mustard

1 teaspoon red pepper sauce

Sauté onions and garlic in vegetable oil until tender. Stir in remaining
ingredients and bring to a boil over medium heat. Reduce heat and simmer
for 10 minutes. This sauce is best with chicken, beef and pork.

**Pride of the South Barbecue Sauce**

1 cup apple cider vinegar ½ cup olive oil

½ cup butter 1 tablespoon Worcestershire sauce

1 teaspoon natural hickory seasoning 1 teaspoon hot pepper sauce

(liquid smoke) 1 teaspoon salt

2 teaspoons finely minced onion ¼ teaspoon garlic powder

Combine all ingredients in saucepan and simmer for 5 minutes. Use to
baste meat frequently throughout entire cooking time. Sauce can also be
spooned over cooked meat when it is served.

Makes 2 cups.

**Barbecue Sauce**

2 cups vinegar ½ stick butter

3 oz. vegetable oil 3 teaspoons red pepper

2 tablespoons Worcestershire sauce

Combine all ingredients in saucepan and simmer for 5 minutes. Use to
baste over chicken or meat as it is being cooked.

**Barbecue Sauce**

> Heloise

1 ½ cups apple-cider vinegar 3 tablespoons Worcestershire sauce

4 teaspoons lemon juice 2 teaspoons brown sugar

1 tablespoon prepared mustard (yellow) 1 tablespoon liquid smoke

1 teaspoon garlic powder 1 teaspoon cayenne pepper

¾ teaspoon salt 1 cup catsup

½ cup tomato puree

Mix all ingredients together; make sure the brown sugar is dissolved.
Put in a clear container with a tightfitting lid -- a clear mayo or
spaghetti sauce jar is perfect. This sauce needs to be stored in the
refrigerator or used immediately.

**Tart and Tangy Barbecue Sauce**

Juice of 6 lemons 1 (14-oz.) bottle catsup

1 (12-oz.) bottle chili sauce 1 pint white vinegar

1 stick butter ¾ cup sugar

3 tablespoons Worcestershire sauce

Bring all ingredients to a boil in a saucepan; boil slowly for 20-30
minutes. Keeps in refrigerator for several weeks. It's very tart, which
is especially good on chicken.

**Yellow Barbecue Sauce**

1 pound butter 2 tablespoons dry mustard

6 tablespoons mustard-mayonnaise sauce 1/3 cup vinegar

1/3 cup lemon juice 8 teaspoons salt

2 tablespoons brown sugar 3 tablespoons Worcestershire sauce

1 tablespoons black pepper

Melt butter and add remaining ingredients. This keeps in the
refrigerator for several weeks.

**Tartar Sauce**

Mayonnaise Onion, chopped with grater

Dill pickles, chopped

Use desired amounts and mix together.

**Hot Diggity-Dog Sauce**

1 pound ground beef ½ cup chopped onions

2 cloves garlic 1 (15-oz.) can tomato sauce

½ cup water 1 teaspoon chili powder

¼ teaspoon salt Black pepper, to taste

Brown beef and onion until done. Add remainder of ingredients and simmer
for 15 to 30 minutes.

Good to serve over hot dogs, or Fritos and top with cheese.

**Italian Spaghetti Sauce**

> Heloise

¼ cup olive oil ½ cup butter

1 cup finely chopped onions 1 pound ground beef

4 strips finely chopped bacon 4 cloves garlic, chopped fine

3 tablespoons finely chopped fresh parsley 1 bay leaf, chopped fine

1 tablespoon salt 1 tablespoon crushed dry red pepper

Black pepper, freshly ground to taste 2 ounces red wine

2 (15-oz.) cans whole tomatoes or tomato sauce 1 small can tomato paste

1 cup water 1 finely chopped carrot

Heat olive oil over low heat in a pot large enough to hold all
ingredients. Add butter and simmer until melted. Add onions and sauté
until lightly browned. Add ground beef and bacon, sauté until browned,
stirring occasionally.

Add garlic, parsley, and bay leaf, salt, black pepper and red pepper.
Cook over low heat for 10 minutes. Add wine; cover and "steam" for a few
minutes more.

Add tomatoes or tomato sauce, tomato paste and water. Bring the mixture
to the boiling point and add the chopped carrot. Cover and cook over
very low heat for an hour, stirring occasionally. Serve over your
favorite cooked pasta.
