---
layout: recipe
title: "seafood"
---

# Seafood

Party Flounder

Mary Franklin

2 ½ lbs. Flounder fillet (2 thick fillets) 1 egg

1 can crabmeat 3 teaspoons parsley, finely chopped

Salt & pepper to taste 2 tablespoons butter

3 celery stalks, finely chopped 2 medium onions, finely chopped

2 slices bread, crumbs 1 ½ cup dry white wine

Combine all ingredients except fish and wine. Spread mixture between the
fish (one on bottom, then mixture, then other fish on top). Pour wine
over. Bake at 350º until flounder flakes. Very good!

BBQ Catfish

Barbara Windham

4-6 Catfish fillets ¾ Acup catsup

¼ cup butter 1 tablespoon Balsamic vinegar

1 tablespoon Worcestershire sauce 1 teaspoon Dijon mustard

½ teaspoon Jamaica seasoning 1 clove garlic, minced

A little parsley A little black pepper

Place fish on a lightly greased baking dish, Mix all above ingredients
and pour over fish, Sprinkle with parslley and bake in preheated oven
400º for 20-30 minutes or until fish flakes.

Grilled Shrimp

2 lbs. Large or jumbo shrimpo 1/3 cup olive oil

¼ cup tomato sauce or pureed tomatoes 2 tablespoons red wine vinegar

1 tablespoon minced garlic 2 tablespoons chopped fresh basil or 1 1/2
teaspons

½ teaspoon salt dried basil

½ teaspoon cayenne pepper

Peel and devein shrimp. In a bowl stir together oil, tomato sauce,
vinegar, basil, garlic, salt and pepper. Add the shrimp and toss to coat
evenly. Cover and refrigerate for two hours or more, stirring
occasionally. Put shrimp on skewers with veggies of your choice. Cook on
mediium-hot grill for about 6 minutes, basting with leftover marinade.

Shrimp

****(From Food Channel)

Large shrimp ½ cup butter

½ cup olive oil Zest and juice of one lemon

Salt and pepper to taste

Place shrimp in baking dish. Mix other ingredients well and pour over
shrimp. Bake at 400º about 12 minutes or until done.

Sea Bass with Tomatoes, Olives and Capers

4 teaspoons olive oil 4 (5-oz.) skinless sea bass fillets (or other
white fish)

1 small onion, diced (about 1 cup) ½ cup dry white wine

1 cup canned no-salt-added diced ½ cup pitted and chopped calamata
olives

tomatoes, with juices ¼ teaspoons red pepper flakes, optional

2 ounces baby spinich leaves, (about 2 Salt and freshly ground pepper,
to taste

lightly packed cups 2 tablespoons capers, drained

In a large non-stick skillet, heat 2 teaspoons of oil over medium-high
heat. Add the fish and cook until opaque in the center (about 2 ½
minutes per side per ½ \" thickness). Transfer the fish to a serving
platter and tent with aluminum foil to keep warm.

Heat the remaining 2 teaspoons oil in the same skillet; add the onions
and cook stirring, for 2 minutes. Add the wine and cook until reduced by
half, about 2 minutes. Add the tomatoes and simmer for about 5 minutes.
Add the olives, capers and red pepper, if using and cook for 1 minute.
Stir in the spinach and cook unti it is wilted, abut 3 minutes. Season
with salt ad pepper.

Spoon the topping over the fish and serve. Yields: 4 servings. 250
calories each.

BBQ Shrimp

> Meredith Daffin

2-3 shrimp deep in pan Garlic salt and chopped garlic

Melted butter to cover shrimp Pepper

Melt butter; add garlic salt and garlic. Pour over shrimp; sprinkle with
pepper. Marinade shrimp in refridgerator at least 1 hour. Preheat oven
for 15 minutes at 500°. Cook shrimp 20 minutes; turn and return to oven
to cook 20 more minutes. Serve with lemon.

Shrimp and Grits Casserole

4 cups chicken broth ½ teaspoon salt

1 cup quick-cooking grits 1 cup shredded chddar cheese, divided

1 cup Monterey Jack cheese 2 tablespoons butter

6 green onions, chopped 1 green pepper, chopped

1 clove garlic 1 lb. Small-medium shrimp, peeled, deveined and

1 can Rotel tomatoes cooked

¼ teaspoon salt ¼ teaspoono pepper

Bring chicken broth and salt to boil; stir in grits; cover and reduce
heat. Simmer 5 minutes. Stir together grits, ¾ cup cheddar cheese and
all Jack cheese. Melt butter in large skillet over medium heat; add
onions, pepper and garlic. Saute 5 minutes. Stir into grits. Mix with
shrimp and next 3 ingredients. Pour into 9x13" dish. Sprinkle with rest
of cheddar cheese. Bake for 30-45 minutes at 350°.

Shrimp Creole

½ cup chopped onion ½ cup chopped celery

1 clove garlic, minced 3 tablespoons salad oil

1 can tomatoes 1 (8-oz.) can tomato sauce

1 ½ teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon sugar

1 tablespoon worcestershire sauce Dash of tabasco

1 teaspoon cornstarch 12 oz. raw cleaned, deveined shrimp

½ cup chopped green pepper

Combine and cook onion, celery, garlic in hot oil until tender -- NOT
brown. Add tomatoes, tomato sauce and seasonings. Simmer uncovered 45
minutes. Mix cornstarch with 2 teaspoons water; stir into sauce. Cook
and stir until mixture thickens. Add shrimp and green pepper. Cover;
simmer until done -- about 5 minutes. Serve on rice. 5-6 servingts.

Tropical Shrimp and Pasta

6 oz. Uncooked angel hair pasta 12 oz. Cooked, peeled and deveined
medium shrimp or

¾ cup sliced pitted ripe olives 2 cups diced cooked chicken

½ cup finely chopped red onion ½ cup fat-free or light mayonnaise

½ cup pineapple juice ¼ cup bottled seafood cocktail sauce

¼ teaspoon paprika 2 cups (8 oz.) shredded mozzarelli cheese

Cook pasta according to directions. Drain and rinse with cold water.
Transfer to large bowl. Add shrimp, olives and onions. In small bowl
combine mayonnaise, pineapple juice and cocktail sauce. Mix well. Pour ¾
cup dressing over shrimp mixture. Toss to coat6. Add cheese; toss well.
Pass remaining dressing. Makes 6 servings.

Tuna-Noodle Casserole

Noodles 9 ¼ oz. Can of tuna

½ cup mayonnaise 1 cup sliced celery

1/3 cup chopped onion ¼ cup chopped green pepper

¼ cup chopped pimento 1 teaspoon salt

1 can cream of celery soup ½ cup milk

1 cup shredded cheese ½ cup slivered, blanched almonds (toasted is
optional)

1 can English peas, optional

Cook noodles in salted, boiling water. Drain. Combine noodles, drained
tuna, mayonnaise, vegetables and salt. Blend soup and milk; heat
through. Add cheese; heat and stir until cheese melts. Add to noodle
mixture. Put in casserole. Top with almonds. Bake in hot oven 425° for
20 minutes. Makes 6 servings

Salmon Croquettes

> Lou Windham

1 can pink salmon 2 eggs, beaten

12-14 saltine crackers, crumbled Canola oil

Remove salmon from can into a bowl. Before breaking up salmon, remove
the round bones and dark skin. Crumble the salmon; add the beaten eggs
and crushed cracker crumbs. Mix well (by hands). Cover the bowl and put
in refrigerator about 1-2 hours (until mixture is cold enough to stay
together.) Take from refrigerator and make salmon patties by taking
about amount in ice cream scoop and form tightly. Mash to shape into
patty. Put enough oil in skillet, enough that when patty is placed in
oil, oil will only come to ½ depth of patty. Let oil reach 375°. Put
patties in hot oil without touching each other. Fry about 5 minutes on
one side (until brown) and turn and fry abut 5 minutes on the other
side. You may need to turn again if patties aren't brown. Remove from
skillet and drain on brown paper sack (or paper towels). They stay
crisper drained on brown sack.
