---
layout: recipe
title: "Soups And Stews"
---

# Soups And Stews

**"Lite" Chicken Dumpling Stew**

3 large chicken breasts 4 tablespoons salt

1 package frozen dumplings 2 quarts water

1 can Healthy Request Cream of Chicken Soup 3 hard-boiled eggs

¼ teaspoon black pepper

In 6-qt. Dutch oven, place water, salt, pepper and chicken. Cook until
tender. Remove from broth, cool and remove bones. Drop frozen dumplings
in boiling water and boil 5 minutes. Add lean strips (or pieces) of
deboned chicken breast and can of cream of chicken soup. Simmer 15
minutes. Add chopped boiled eggs before serving.

**Chicken Noodle Soup**

4 cups diced cooked chicken 1 cup chopped celery

1 cup chopped onion ¼ cup margarine

12 cups water 1 cup chopped carrots

3 tablespoons instant chicken bouillon ½ teaspoon marjoram

½ teaspoon pepper 1 bay leaf

1 tablespoon parsley 1 (5-oz.) package wide egg noodles

Cook celery and onion in butter until tender. Add remaining ingredients,
except noodles and parsley. Bring to boil; reduce heat and simmer 40-45
minutes. Remove bay leaf; add noodles and parsley; bring back to boil.
Simmer 10 minutes or until noodles are tender. Makes 4 quarts.

**Creamy Chicken Chowder**

> Shirley Ferguson

1 can cream of chicken soup 1 (4-oz.) can mushrooms

1 can cream of potato soup 1 can Mexicorn

½-1 can skim milk 1 cup chicken broth

2 cups chopped, cooled chicken 2 cups sharp cheddar cheese, grated

1 can green chilies

Open all cans (undrained) and combine everything except cheese. Add milk
and broth until you get the soup consistency you want. Remove from heat
and add cheese. Stir until melted.

**3-Bean Chicken Stew**

1 tablespoon canola oil 1 ¾ lbs. boneless, skinless chicken breasts,

1 large onion, chopped cut into chunks

1 (14-oz.) can chicken broth 3 (15-oz.) cans beans (black, navy and

3 cups canned tomatoes kidney)

1 cup sliced celery 1 cup sliced carrots

1 cup dry red wine (optional) 1 large bay leaf

1 tablespoon Italian herbs 1 cup smoked chicken breast, cubed

1 cup fresh Italian parsley, chopped 1 cup fresh cilantro, chopped

Salt and pepper to taste

Heat oil in a large pot; brown chicken. Remove chicken and set aside.
Sauté onions until soft, about 5 minutes. Add broth, beans, tomatoes,
celery, carrots, wine, bay leaf, herbs and all chicken; cover and simmer
for 40 minutes. Add parsley, cilantro, salt and pepper and simmer 5 more
minutes.

**White Chili**

4 chicken breasts 1 teaspoon salt

1 teaspoon pepper 1 small onion

1 tablespoon olive oil 1 can northern beans, undrained

2 cans navy beans, undrained ½ cup medium salsa

1 (14.5-oz.) chicken broth 2 tablespoons Jalapeno peppers, chopped

2 tablespoons oregano 1 tablespoon Greek seasoning

1 teaspoon garlic powder 2 cups shredded Colby/Monterey Jack cheese

Season chicken breasts with salt and pepper and bake in oven at 350° for
30 minutes. Cut

chicken into 1" pieces. Sautee onion in olive oil. Add all ingredients
except cheese. Cover and

bring to boil. Reduce heat to low and continue to cook for 30 minutes.
Add cheese, mix well

and serve.

**White Chicken Chili**

> Amy Windham

1 rotisserie chicken 2 garlic cloves (optional)

1 ¾ cups chicken broth 1 teaspoon cumin

1 teaspoon oregano ½ teaspoon salt

1 cans white northern beans 1 can white corn

3 tablespoons lime juice ½ teaspoon cilantro

Remove all chicken from bones and chop. Add remaining ingredients and
simmer 20-30

minutes.

**White Chicken Chili and Lime**

1 tablespoon oil 1 cup chopped onion

1 red pepper, cored and chopped 1 lb. ground chicken or turkey

1 tablespoon minced garlic, optional 1 ½ tablespoons chili powder

1 tablespoon all-purpose flour Salt and pepper to taste

1 teaspoon cumin 1 teaspoon dried oregano

2 cups chicken broth 2 (15 ½ - oz.) cans white beans, drained and

4 ½-oz. can chopped green chilies rinsed

½ cup sour cream

Cook onion and pepper in oil until onion is soft. Add chicken and cook
until chicken is no

longer pink, about 5 minutes. Add garlic, chili powder, flour, cumin and
oregano; cook

about 2 minutes. Add broth and whisk. Bring mixture to boil and simmer
10 minutes.

Meanwhile, use a fork and mash 1 cup of beans. Add all the beans and
chilies to the chili and

simmer 10 minutes. Stir in sour cream and cook until hot. Season with
salt and pepper.

Ladle into bowls and serve with chopped scallions, chopped fresh
cilantro, grated Monterey-Jack

cheese, and lime wedges. 6 servings.

**Quick Chicken Chili**

3 boneless, skinless chicken breasts (diced) 1 can (14.5-oz.) diced
tomatoes with onion

1 package (1.25-oz.) chili seasoning mix 1 can (15.25-oz.) whole kernel
corn

1 can (15-oz.) kidney beans, drained

Combine chicken, undrained tomatoes and seasoning mix in medium
saucepan. Cover over medium heat 5 minutes or until chicken is done.
(This is Lou: It seems that there is not enough water to accommodate for
the package of chili mix; I would add enough water to thin this.) Add
undrained corn and beans; simmer 5 minutes or until heated through.

**Turkey Chili**

2 lbs. ground turkey 1 can diced tomatoes

2 cans light red kidney beans, undrained 2 tablespoons chili powder

2 tablespoons cumin

Place a large pot over medium-high heat. Brown turkey meat and drain.
Return turkey to pot and stir in all other ingredients. Simmer on
medium-low heat for about 15-20 minutes, stirring often. Serves 4.

**Good Chili**

2 tablespoons oil 1 ½ to 2 lbs. ground chuck

1 can (10-oz.) French onion soup\* 1 tablespoon chili powder

2 teaspoons ground cumin ½ teaspoon black pepper

Few drops Tabasco sauce 1 can (21-oz.) red kidney beans, undrained

1 can (6-oz.) tomato paste 1 can (8-oz.) tomato sauce

Heat oil. Crumble and brown beef until no longer pink. Puree onion soup
in blender and pour over beef. Simmer about 5 minutes. Add spices,
undrained beans, tomato paste and sauce. Stir until combined. Simmer
over low heat at least 20 minutes. Stir occasionally.

\*I have substituted this for ½ cup onions that I cooked in pan after I
cooked the beef and 2 beef bouillon cubes with 1 cup water. We have
enjoyed this recipe.

**Chili**

2 lbs. ground chuck 1 can mushrooms

2 onions, chopped Salt and pepper to taste

2 packages chili seasoning mix 1 can tomatoes

1 can tomato sauce 1 can drained red kidney beans

1 cup spaghetti, broken 1 ½ cups water

Brown beef with mushrooms and onions. Drain. Add salt, pepper, chili
seasoning mix; stir well. Add tomatoes, tomato sauce, kidney beans,
uncooked spaghetti and water. Simmer 1 hour. (If too dry while cooking,
add small amounts of water at a time.)

**Chilly Day Chili**

1 medium onion, chopped 1 green pepper, coarsely chopped

1 tablespoon salad oil 2 lbs. ground beef

1 can (15-oz.) tomato sauce ½ cup Heinz ketchup

2 teaspoons salt ¼ teaspoon pepper

2 cans (15 ½ -oz. each) kidney beans, partially 2 tablespoon chili
powder

Drained

In large kettle or Dutch oven, sauté onions and green pepper in oil
until tender. Add beef, stirring lightly to break up.) Cover; simmer
about 30 minutes or until meat loses color. Add tomatoes and all
ingredients except beans. Simmer, uncovered 30 minutes, stirring
occasionally. Add kidney beans; simmer an additional 15 minutes. Makes
10-12 servings (about 2 ½ quarts.)

Note: Recipe is a mild flavored chili. Additional chili powder may be
added for a spicier dish.

**Cincinnati-Style Chili 'Five-Way'**

2 large onions, chopped 3 tablespoons oil

4 garlic cloves, minced 3 lbs. ground chuck

4 tablespoons chili powder 2 teaspoons ground cumin

2 teaspoons sweet paprika ¾ teaspoon cayenne

¼ teaspoon ground allspice ¼ teaspoon cinnamon

¼ teaspoon ground coriander 2 (8-oz.) cans tomato sauce

2 tablespoons unsweetened cocoa powder 1 tablespoon molasses

3 cups beef broth 2 tablespoons cider vinegar

¼ teaspoon ground turmeric ¼ teaspoon ground coriander

In a heavy kettle, cook the onions in oil over moderate heat, stirring
until they are softened. Add the garlic and cook for 1 minute, stirring.
Add the chuck and cook, stirring and breaking up lumps, until it is no
longer pink. Add the chili powder, the cumin, paprika, cayenne,
allspice, cinnamon, turmeric, coriander and cardamom. Cook the mixture,
stirring, for 1 minute and stir in tomato sauce, cocoa powder, molasses,
broth and vinegar. Cook over low, stirring often, for 30 minutes or
more.

Accompaniments: Cooked spaghetti, cooked red kidney beans, chopped
onion, finely grated cheddar cheese, oyster crackers -- Makes 6 servings

**Savory Texas-style Chili**

3 lbs. boneless beef for stew, cut into 1/2" cubes ¼ cup vegetable oil

1 ¼ cup chopped onion 1 cup chopped green pepper

3 cloves garlic, chopped (optional) 2 (28-oz.) cans tomatoes

3 cups water 1 (6-oz.) can tomato paste

8 teaspoons beef-flavor bouillon or 8 cubes 2 tablespoons chili powder

1 tablespoon ground cumin 2 teaspoons oregano leaves

2 teaspoons sugar Corn chips, optional

Shredded Muenster or Monterey/Jack Cheese

In 40-qt. saucepan, brown beef in oil; one-third at a time. Remove beef
from pan; cook onion, green pepper and garlic until tender. Add beef,
tomatoes, water, paste, bouillon, chili powder, cumin, oregano and
sugar. Cover; bring to a boil. Reduce heat; simmer one and one-half
hours or until meat is tender. If desired, serve with chips and garnish
with cheese. Refrigerate leftovers. Makes about 4 quarts or 12 servings.

**Red Bean Chili**

2 lbs. lean ground beef 1 large onion, chopped

2 (15-oz.) cans light red kidney beans 1 (12-oz.) can tomato juice

1 (10 ¾ - oz.) can tomato soup 2 tablespoons chili powder

1 teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon pepper

Garnish: Chopped onion

Cook beef and onion in a large Dutch oven over medium-heat 10 to 12
minutes, stirring until beef crumbles and is no longer pink. Drain, and
return beef mixture to Dutch oven. Stir kidney beans and rest of
ingredients (except Garnish) into beef mixture; reduce heat, and simmer,
stirring occasionally, 1 hour. Serve onions as garnish if desired. Makes
8 servings.

**Chili Con Carne**

1 lb. ground beef 1 large onion, chopped (about 1 cup)

2 cloves garlic, crushed 1 tablespoon chili powder

1 teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon ground cumin

1 teaspoon dried oregano leaves 1 teaspoon cocoa

½ teaspoon red pepper sauce 1 can (16-oz.) whole tomatoes, drained

1 can (15 ½ -oz.) red kidney beans, undrained

Cook and stir ground beef, onion and garlic in 3-qt. saucepan until beef
is brown; drain. Stir in remaining ingredients except beans; break up
tomatoes. Heat to boiling; reduce heat. Cover and simmer, stirring
occasionally, 1 hour. Stir in beans. Heat to boiling; reduce heat.
Simmer uncovered, stirring mixture occasionally, until of desired
consistency, about 20 minutes. Makes 4 servings.

*[Variations]{.underline}*: For **Cincinnati-Style Chili**, prepare as
directed. For each serving, spoon about ¾ beef mixture over 1 cup hot
cooked spaghetti. Sprinkle cheese and 2 tablespoons chopped onion. Top
with a dollop of dairy sour cream if desired. Makes 5 servings.

For **Easy Chili Con Carne**, increase chili powder to 2 tablespoons;
omit cumin, oregano, cocoa and pepper sauce.

**Barbara's Chili**

> Barbara Windham

3 lbs. ground beef 1 large onion, chopped

1 large bell pepper, chopped 2 cans Rotel tomatoes

1 can kidney beans 3 tablespoons chili powder

1 tablespoon cumin powder 2 teaspoons garlic powder

Salt and pepper to taste Red pepper flakes or cayenne pepper to taste

Brown beef and drain grease. Add onion and pepper; sauté until tender.
Add other ingredients. Reduce heat and simmer, stirring occasionally,
2-3 hours. Serves 8-10.

**Baked Potato Soup**

½ stick butter ¼ cup chopped onion

¼ cup all-purpose flour 1 can (14.5-oz.) chicken broth

1 can (12-oz.) evaporated milk 2 large or 3 medium baking potatoes,

Baked or microwaved

Melt butter in large saucepan over medium heat. Add onion; cook,
stirring occasionally, for 1-2 minutes or until tender. Stir in flour.
Gradually add broth and milk. Scoop potato pulp from 1 potato (reserve
potato skin); mash. Add pulp to broth mixture. Cook over medium heat,
stirring occasionally, until mixture comes to a boil. Dice remaining
potato skin and potatoes; add to soup. Heat through. Spoon into bowls;
sprinkle each with toppings.

Toppings: cooked crumbled bacon, shredded cheddar cheese, sliced green
onions

**Potato Soup**

> Pat Hill

1 (14-oz.) can chicken broth 1 cup chopped onion

1 (32-oz.) package frozen hash brown potatoes 3 cups water

1 can cream of chicken soup 1 can cream of celery soup

2 cups milk (I use skim) Salt and pepper to taste

Cook onions in butter until tender. Mix all ingredients thoroughly and
until soup is heated thoroughly. \*You can leave soup as is or if you
want it smooth, mash potatoes with masher until soup is texture you
like. This is done after soup has cooked.

**Creamy Potato Soup**

4-5 potatoes 1-2 carrots

1 small onion 2 tablespoons butter

3 cups milk ½ cup flour

Salt and pepper to taste Cheese and bacon bits for topping

1 cup sour cream

Peel potatoes and carrots and chop into small pieces. Chop onion. Mix
together in a large pot and cover with water. Boil until potatoes are
soft. Drain water and place pot of vegetables on medium burner. Add
butter and 1-2 cups of milk. In small lidded bowl, add flour, sour cream
and 1 cup of milk. Shake to mix and add to pot. Fill pot with extra milk
until all potatoes are covered and cook until thick and creamy. Add salt
and pepper to taste. Top with cheese and bacon bits.

**Houlihan's Baked Potato Soup**

> Frances Carr

1 ½ lb. baking potatoes (3-4 large) 1 stick butter

2 cups diced onion 1/3 cup flour

5 cups water ¼ cup chicken broth

1 cup instant potato flakes ¾ teaspoon dried basil flakes (optional)

½ teaspoon tabasco 1 cup evaporated milk

1 cup milk Salt and Pepper to taste

Wash potatoes, prick skins and bake in 400° oven until fork pierces to
center easily. Remove potatoes from oven and allow to fully cool. Remove
skin and cut potatoes into ½ " cubes. Set aside. Melt butter in large
saucepan; add onions and sauté over low heat until onions are
translucent. Don't allow onions to burn. Add flour to onions and butter;
cook 4-5 minutes, stirring well until flour is absorbed. In a separate
container, combine water, broth, potato flakes, and seasonings. Stir to
eliminate lumps. Add slowly to onion mixture. Simmer; add milk and
cream. Simmer 15 minutes; add potatoes.

**Beth's Potato Soup**

> Beth Ferguson (Shared by Shirley Ferguson)

6-8 bacon strips 2 small onions, chopped

2 cloves garlic, minced 6 cups chicken broth

4 large baking potatoes 2 teaspoons salt

2 teaspoons dried basil 1 teaspoon pepper

2 cans cream of potato soup Shredded cheddar cheese

Cook bacon until crisp; break up and put aside in bowl. Keep 1 teaspoon
bacon drippings and sauté onion and garlic. Gradually add chicken broth.
Stir. Add potatoes, peeled and cut into small cubes. Bring to boil. Turn
to medium and cook until done. Add seasonings, potato soup, cheese and
bacon bits. Turn heat off.

**Crock Pot Camp Stew**

> Charlotte Newman

1 can Castleberry's BBQ pork 1 can Castleberry's BBQ beef

1 can Sweet Sue chicken, or other canned 1 can cream style corn

Chicken 1 can shoe peg or niblet corn

2 cans stewed tomatoes Juice from 1 lemon

2 tablespoon Worcestershire sauce 1 teaspoon sugar

3 potatoes, peeled and cubed 1 onion, chopped

1 package (8-oz.) frozen, petite butter beans &

¼ cup liquid from beans

Boil potatoes, onion and butter beans in small amount of water until
tender. Add all ingredients to crock pot and simmer 4 hours.

Alternative: Use a 15-oz. can of potatoes and cup up and ½ cup chopped
onion and 1 cup frozen baby lima beans -- no need to cook these. Just
add all ingredients to crock pot and cook.

**Camp Stew #1**

> Jane Brooks

1 ½ lbs. ground beef 1 onion, chopped

2 cans tomatoes 1 can cream style corn

1 can whole kernel corn 1 can whole chicken with broth (I use chicken

¼ cup Worcestershire sauce breast cooked and shredded and broth

14 oz. bottle Heinz Hot Ketchup from chicken)

3 potatoes, cut in small cubes

Brown beef and onion together until beef is done and onion is clear.
Drain grease. Add rest of

ingredients except cream corn and ketchup (these stick very easily and
cause stew to burn); add

enough of broth from chicken to cover. Cook over medium until stew comes
to boil; reduce heat

and simmer (about 45 minutes to 1 hour) stirring often. About 15 minutes
before stew is done,

add ketchup and cream corn. Cook through, stir to prevent burning. This
freezes well.

**Camp Stew #2**

> Pat Hill

1 lb. ground beef 1 medium onion, chopped

2-5 (or more) peeled, diced potatoes 1 (16-oz.) package frozen butter
beans, thawed

1 (14 3/4-oz.) can creamed corn 1 (8 ¾-oz.) can whole kernel corn,
drained

1 (10-oz.) can Castleberry's BBQ pork 1 (10-oz.) can white chicken in
water, drained

2 (14.5-oz) cans tomatoes, petite cut 1 cup hot ketchup (or regular
ketchup & 1 tsp.

1 cup water hot sauce

1 tablespoon Worcestershire sauce 1 teaspoon salt

1 teaspoon pepper

Cook beef and onion until done; drain well. Add ingredients in 6-qt.
slow cooker (crockpot).

Cover and cook 8 hours until potatoes are tender.\*

Parboil potatoes until tender and then add to the mixture the last 4-5
hours. WATCH FOR

STICKING! It will stick very easily with the ketchup and creamed corn.

**Brunswick Stew #1**

> Pat Hill

1 (10-oz) can Castleberry's BBQ Pork 2 large cans chunk chicken breasts,
drained

2 cans cream style corn or cook 1 large and 1 small breast

1 can baby green lima beans, drained ½ can Rotel Original tomatoes

3 cans diced tomatoes, puree one of these 2 cans whole potatoes, drain
and dice

½ cup ketchup ½ cup BBQ sauce

1 onion, diced 1 lb. ground beef

Brown ground beef and onion. Drain. Mix everything but corn and ketchup
in crockpot. Cook

on high 4 hours or low for 8 hours. Add cream corn and ketchup toward
the end; they are bad about sticking.

**Gay Neale's Brunswick Stew #2**

1 (3-lb.) broiler or fryer 2 stalks celery, cut into 1" pieces

1 small onion, quartered 7 cups water, divided

2 (10-oz.) packages frozen baby limas 2 (10-oz.) packages frozen whole
kernel corn

1 cup chopped onion 2 (28-oz.) cans whole tomatoes, undrained &

1 (8-oz.) can tomatoes, undrained & chopped

chopped 2 tablespoons butter

1 tablespoon salt 1 -- 1 ½ teaspoons black pepper

½ to 1 teaspoon red pepper 10 saltine crackers, crumbled

Combine broiler-fryer, celery, quartered onion and 5 cups water in a
large Dutch oven or stock pot; bring to a boil. Cover, reduce heat and
simmer 1 hour. Remove chicken, celery and onion from broth, reserving
broth in Dutch oven; discard celery and onion. Cool chicken; skin, bone,
and coarsely chop meat.

Add chicken, lima beans, and remaining ingredients, except saltines, to
broth. Bring to a boil. Reduce heat and simmer, uncovered, about 4 ½
hours or until desired consistency, stirring often. Add remaining water
as needed. Add cracker crumbs, and cook an additional 15 minutes.
Yields: 3 ½ quarts.

**Brunswick Stew #3**

1 tablespoon olive oil 1 medium onion, chopped

1 lb. boneless chicken breasts, skinned 1 ½ cups chopped tomatoes
(canned)

& cut into 1" cubes, remove fat 1 (6-oz.) can tomato paste

10 oz. baby lima beans, fresh or frozen 10 oz. corn kernels, fresh or
frozen

3 cups chicken stock 1 tablespoon Worcestershire sauce

3 tablespoons fresh lemon juice

In a deep skillet or Dutch oven, heat oil over medium-high heat. Add
onion and sauté about 3 minutes, until soft. Add chicken pieces and
remaining ingredients. Reduce heat to low, cover and simmer 1 hour,
stirring occasionally.

**Santé Fe Soup**

> Ginger Windham

2 lbs. ground beef 1 chopped onion, optional (Ginger doesn't use it)

2 packages Taco seasoning, 1 reg & 1 mild 2 packages Ranch Dressing

2 cans white shoe peg corn 1 can black beans

1 can kidney beans 1 can pinto beans

1 can Rotel tomatoes & peppers 1 can diced tomatoes

2 cups water (add more as needed)

Brown and drain meat (and onion if used). Take paper towels and soak all
grease after browning meat. Add all remaining ingredients in large pot
and cook until well-blended. I usually cook about 2 hours on low heat.

Serve with sour cream, grated cheese, corn chips, etc. I like to cook
the day before need and refrigerate; then heat the next day.

Ginger assembles hers according to directions and puts in crockpot on
low heat all day.

Note: Daniel doesn't like Santé Fe Soup.

**Taco Stew**

1 lb. lean ground beef 1 medium onion, chopped

15 ½-oz. can whole kernel corn, undrained 10-oz can diced tomatoes &
chilies, undrained

15-oz. can pinto beans in chili sauce 1 envelope taco seasoning

10 ¾ oz. can tomato soup, undiluted 1 can water

Baked tortilla chips Monterey Jack cheese, grated

Brown beef; drain and rinse with hot water to remove excess fat. Combine
all ingredients except chips and cheese, in a Dutch oven. Simmer on low.
To serve, crumble chips in bowl and cover with stew. Sprinkle with
cheese. Or serve chips and cheese and let each person add as needed.
Makes 4-6 servings.

**Taco Twist Soup**

1 lb. lean ground beef 1 medium onion, chopped

2 cloves garlic, minced 1-2 teaspoons chili powder, as desired

1 teaspoon ground cumin 3 cups beef broth

1 ½ cups Picante Sauce 1 can (14 ½-oz.) diced tomatoes in juice

1 cup uncooked rotini pasta 1 small green pepper, chopped

Shredded cheddar cheese Tortilla chips

In large saucepan or Dutch oven, brown ground beef with onion and
garlic; drain. Sprinkle chili powder and cumin over meat; cook and stir
30 seconds. Add remaining ingredients except cheese and chips; mix well.
Bring to a boil, stirring frequently. Reduce heat, cover and simmer
10-15 minutes or until pasta is tender, stirring occasionally. Ladle
into bowls; top with cheese. Serve with tortilla chips and additional
picante sauce. Makes 8 (1 cup each) servings.

**Amy's Vegetable Soup**

> Amy Windham

1 lb. ground turkey or beef 2 cans beef broth

2 beef bouillon cubes 2 cups water

2 cans chunky chili tomatoes 1 ½ bags McKenzie Veg Soup Mix

1 can black-eyed peas, drained 1 can whole kernel corn, drained

½ bag frozen cut okra 1 can light red kidney beans

½-1 package chili-o Salt and pepper to taste

Brown ground meat until done. Drain. Add all other ingredients. This can
be cooked in crockpot or in large pot on stove (cooked slowly).

**Italian Vegetable Soup**

> Dana Webster & Pam Martin

1 lb. ground beef 1 cup chopped onion

1 cup sliced carrots 1 cup sliced celery

2 cloves garlic, minced 1 (16-oz.) can tomatoes

1 (15-oz.) can tomato sauce 1 (15-0z.) can kidney beans, drained

2-4 cups water 2 teaspoons instant beef bouillon

1 teaspoon salt ½ teaspoon basil

¼ teaspoon pepper 2 cups shredded cabbage

1 cup green beans, canned ½ cup uncooked macaroni

Brown beef until crumbly and done; drain. Add all ingredients except
cabbage, green beans and macaroni. Mix well. Let come to a boil; then
simmer at least 20 minutes, stirring occasionally. Add the cabbage,
green beans and macaroni. Boil; reduce heat and simmer until vegetables
are done. Stir frequently. Serve with Parmesan Cheese, if desired.
Serves 12.

**Spicy Vegetable Soup**

1 lb. ground beef 1 cup chopped onion

2 cloves garlic, pressed 1 (30-oz.) jar chunky garden-style spaghetti
sauce

1 (10 ½-oz.) can beef broth, undiluted 2 cups water

1 cup sliced celery 1 teaspoon salt

1 teaspoon sugar 1 (10-oz.) can Rotel tomatoes and green chilies

½ teaspoon pepper 1 (16-oz.) package frozen mixed veggies

Cook beef, onion and garlic in a large Dutch oven over medium heat until
meat is browned, stirring to crumble. Drain and return meat to Dutch
oven. Add spaghetti sauce, beef broth, water, celery, salt, pepper and
sugar. Bring to a boil; cover, reduce heat and simmer 20 minutes,
stirring occasionally. Stir in tomatoes and vegetables; return to a
boil. Cover and simmer 10-12 minutes or until vegetables are tender.
Yield: 12 cups.

**Vegetable Gumbo**

4 cups water 1 package Lipton dry onion soup mix

1 package frozen McKenzie vegetable 1 (16-oz.) can tomatoes, undrained

Gumbo soup mix 2-3 tablespoons uncooked rice

Bring water to boil; add onion soup mix. Stir until soup comes to a boil
again. Add vegetables, tomatoes and rice. Bring to a boil and reduce
heat. Simmer for 30 minutes.

**Italian Garden Vegetable Soup**

2 cans (14 ½ oz.) chicken broth 1 can (14 ½ oz.) Del Monte diced
tomatoes with

1 can (15 ¼ oz.) Del Monte Whole Kernel basil, garlic and oregano

Sweet corn, drained 1 can (14 ½ oz.) Del Monte peas and carrots, drain

1 can (14 ½ oz.) Del Monte French Style

Green beans, or cut green beans, drain

Combine broth, undrained tomatoes and remaining ingredients in large
saucepan. Bring to a boil; reduce heat. Simmer, uncovered 3 minutes or
until heated through. Serve with Parmesan cheese, if desired.

**Italian Vegetable Soup with Beans & Pesto**

1 ½ tablespoons olive oil 1 large onion, diced

3 medium carrots, sliced ¼ " thick 3 medium celery stalks, sliced ¼"
thick

1 medium bell pepper (red or yellow), diced 1 pound all-purpose potatoes
(about 4), diced

1 (16-oz.) can petite diced tomatoes 6 cups chicken broth

1 cup frozen green peas Salt and pepper to taste

7 cups baby spinach, optional Prepared pesto (in grocer's refrigerated
section)

Heat oil in a soup kettle over medium-high flame. Add onions and sauté
until tender, about 5 minutes. Add carrots, celery, peppers, potatoes,
tomatoes, beans and chicken broth; bring to a boil. Reduce heat to low
and simmer until vegetables are just tender, about 15 minutes. Add
spinach (if using) and peas; continue to simmer until spinach wilts, 3-4
minutes longer. Season to taste with salt and pepper. Ladle into bowls,
adding a spoonful of pesto to each serving of soup, if desired.

**Black-eyed Pea Soup**

> Lou Phillips

7 chicken bouillon cubes 1 small onion

1 tablespoon butter 2 cups water

1 small jar salsa, mild 2 cans black-eyed peas

1 cup cooked rice

Rinse and drain peas. Melt butter in pan; add onions and bouillon cubes;
stir fry a few minutes. Add water, salsa and peas. Cook on low heat
15-20 minutes. Add rice and heat.

**Broccoli Soup**

> Lou Windham

1 package frozen broccoli (10-oz.) 6 tablespoons butter

1 tablespoon finely chopped onion 5 tablespoons all-purpose flour

¾ teaspoon salt Dash of pepper

Dash of ground nutmeg 2 cups milk

1 cup chicken broth 1 cup (or more) cheddar cheese

Remove broccoli from package and place on microwavable plate; microwave
on high for 5 minutes. Let stand 5-10 minutes; press to remove excess
water. In 2-quart saucepan, combine butter and onion and cook until
onion is tender. Stir in flour, salt, pepper and nutmeg; blend in milk
and broth, stirring until it thickens. Stir in broccoli and cook 5-10
more minutes; stirring often. Add grated cheddar cheese and stir until
cheese is melted.

**Broccoli Soup**

2 cans cream of chicken soup 2 cans cream of celery soup

2 cans cream of potato soup 1 quart milk

2 packages (10-oz. each) frozen chopped 1 onion, grated

Broccoli, cooked 1 stick butter

Sauté onion in butter. Stir in rest of ingredients and bake in
oven-proof dish at 300° for 3 hours.

**Old-Fashioned Okra Stew**

4 (16-oz.) cans whole tomatoes, undrained 1 (1-lb.) ham hock

and chopped 3 cups sliced okra

1 cup fresh corn, cut from cob 1 cup fresh lima beans

¾ cup chopped onion ½ cup diced green pepper

1 bay leaf ½ teaspoon salt

¼ teaspoon dried whole oregano ¼ teaspoon pepper

Hot cooked rice

Combine all ingredients except rice in a large Dutch oven; bring to a
boil. Reduce heat; cover and simmer 1 ½ hours, stirring frequently.
Remove ham hock from stew. Remove meat from the bone and chop. Add meat
to stew; stir well. Place rice in bowls, and ladle stew over rice.
Yield: about 3 quarts.

**Black Bean Soup**

2 cups dried black beans ¼ cup olive oil

4 medium onions, coarsely chopped 1 tablespoon minced garlic

2 carrots, coarsely chopped 4 celery stalks with some leaves, coarsely
chopped

1 tablespoon ground cumin 2 bay leaves

2 tablespoons chopped fresh parsley 1 ham bone or smoked pork butt

1 teaspoon salt, or to taste 1 teaspoon ground pepper

2/3 cup dry sherry Garnish: 2 hard-cooked eggs, sieved &

2 lemons, thinly sliced

Quick method for beans: soak 4 hours and then drain. Bring water to boil
and add beans. Reduce heat to simmer, and skim off any foam. Cover and
cook for 1 hour.

Meanwhile, heat oil in a skillet over moderate heat. Add onions and
sauté, stirring frequently, until golden, about 4 minutes. Stir in
garlic, carrots, celery and cumin, and sauté until the vegetables soften
slightly, about 3 minutes. Add about ½ cup water from the beans. Reduce
heat to low and cook for 20 minutes, stirring occasionally, watching to
see that vegetables stay moist. Add water as needed. Remove from the
heat.

Add bay leaves, parsley, ham bone, salt and pepper to beans. Stir in
vegetables. Cover and cook 2 hours, adding a little hot water if the
beans become too thick.

Remove ham bone and discard (if using butt, cut meat in small cubes and
reserve). Working in batches, process soup in food processor or blender
until smooth. Return to pot, add sherry and cook until hot. Garnish with
egg, lemons and ham, if pork but was used. Total cooking time:

3 ¼ hours. Serves 8.

**Quick Jambalaya**

> Judy Chipman

1 tablespoon vegetable oil ½ cup chopped onion

½ cup chopped green pepper 2 cups chopped cooked chicken

2 cups cooked rice 1 can (15-oz.) Van Camp's New Orleans Style

1 can (14.5-oz.) diced tomatoes, undrained Red Kidney Beans

1 cup medium salsa 1 teaspoon dried thyme leaves

1 teaspoon salt

Heat oil in large skillet. Cook onion and bell pepper over low heat 5
minutes or until tender, stirring occasionally. Add chicken, rice,
beans, tomatoes, salsa, thyme and salt. Bring to a boil. Reduce heat;
simmer 15 minutes. Makes 6 servings.

**Grilled Corn Chowder with Peppers and Cilantro**

8 ears husked corn 1 large onion, peeled and sliced very thin

½ red bell pepper, stemmed and seeded 1 lb. new potatoes, halved

1 ½ tablespoon olive oil Salt and ground black pepper

4 slices bacon, chopped 1 teaspoon dried thyme leaves

1 quart chicken broth 2 tablespoons chopped fresh cilantro, plus

Extra for garnish

Brush 4 ears of corn, onion, bell pepper and potatoes with oil and
sprinkle with salt and pepper. Scrape remaining 4 ears of corn; puree
and scrape corn into a blender (about 2 cups.)

Heat gas grill on high for at least 10 minutes, or build charcoal fire.
Clean grate with a wire brush and lubricate with an oil-soaked rag.
Place vegetables on hot grate, making sure potatoes are cut side down.
Cook until spotty brown, about 5 minutes for the potatoes (no need to
turn) and about 10 minutes (turning once) for the corn, onions and
pepper. Remove vegetables from grill; set aside until cool enough to
handle. Chop potatoes and onions, and remove corn from cobs.

Meanwhile, fry bacon in a large soup kettle over medium-high heat until
crisp, 5-7 minutes. Add thyme and then corn puree; cook until it begins
to bubble. Add chicken broth, and bring to a boil; add vegetables,
reduce heat to medium-low and simmer, partially covered, until flavors
blend, about 5 minutes, adding water if necessary to desired thickness.
Stir in cilantro. Ladle into bowl and garnish with cilantro leaves.

**[Shortcut version:]{.underline}** Make the following changes: (See
next page.)

**Grilled Corn Chowder with Peppers and Cilantro**

**[Shortcut version:]{.underline}** Make the following changes to the
soup on preceding page.

Substitute 2 cups frozen corn for 4 whole ears of corn (you will still
need the 4 fresh ears for the puree), and cut onions, pepper and
potatoes into medium dice. Omit oil and grilling step and simply add
onions and pepper to fried bacon and sauté until tender. Add potatoes
and frozen corn with the chicken broth and simmer until the potatoes are
tender, 12-15 minutes. 6-8 servings. 248 calories per serving; shortcut
version 213 calories.

**Corn Chowder with Chiles**

¼ pound bacon slices, chopped 1 cup onions, chopped

½ cup celery, chopped ¼ cup celery leaves, chopped

1 (4-oz.) can diced green chilies, drained Dash cumin

2 tablespoons flour 1 (16-oz.) can whole-kernel corn

3 cups milk 1 teaspoon salt

1/8 teaspoon black pepper 1 ½ cups shredded jack cheese

Avocado slices

Fry bacon in saucepan; then remove and drain on paper towels. Set aside.
Pour off all but 3 tablespoons fat. Add onion celery, celery leaves and
chilies. Cook until vegetables are tender, about 8 minutes. Add cumin
and flour and stir until blended. Add undrained corn, milk, salt and
pepper. Cook and stir until soup comes to boil and is slightly
thickened. Just before serving, stir in 1 cup cheese. Pour into soup
bowls and sprinkle with remaining cheese and bacon. Garnish with avocado
slices. Makes 4 to 6 servings.

**Shrimp Jambalaya**

1 large yellow onion, chopped 1 large garlic clove, minced

1 large green pepper, chopped 1 large celery rib, diced with tops

¼ cup lard or bacon drippings 2 tablespoons minced parsley

½ lb. ham, cut into ¼ " cubes ½ teaspoon dried leaf thyme

1 teaspoon Tabasco sauce 1 can (1 lb. 12-oz.) tomatoes

½ cup tomato sauce 2 cups rice

1 ½ lbs. fresh or frozen raw shrimp, 2 bay leaves

shelled and deveined

Sauté onion, garlic, green pepper and celery in lard (moderate heat)
until onion is golden. Add parsley, ham, thyme and bay leaves; cook 5
minutes, stirring often. Add Tabasco, tomatoes with juice, tomato sauce,
2 cups water and 2 teaspoons salt. Simmer 5 minutes. Add rice, reduce
heat to simmer, and cook covered 30 minutes. Add shrimp and simmer,
covered, 10-15 minutes longer, until rice is tender and all liquid is
absorbed. Season to taste with salt and tabasco. Serves 6-8.

**[Chicken Jambalaya]{.underline}**:

Add 1 (2 ½ - 3 lbs.) chicken, cut up, and ½ lb. Polish sausage, sliced,
when onion-celery mixture gets tender. Proceed as directed; omitting ham
and shrimp.

**Campbell's Slow-Cooker Tuscan Beef Stew**

1 can (10 ¾-oz.) Campbell's tomato soup 1 can Campbell's condensed beef
broth

½ cup red wine or water 2 lbs. beef for stew, cut into 1" pieces

1 can (12 ½-oz.) diced Italian-style 3 large carrots, cut into 1" pieces

Tomatoes 1 teaspoon Italian seasoning, crushed

½ teaspoon garlic powder 2 cans (about 16-oz. each) white kidney beans,

(Cannelloni), drained

Mix soup, broth, wine, beef, tomatoes, carrots, Italian seasoning garlic
in 3 ½ quart slow cooker. Cover and cook on low 8-9 hours or on High 4-5
hours. Stir in beans. Turn heat to high and cook 10 minutes. Serves 8.
Serve over egg noodles.

**Hunt's 20-Minute Beef Stew**

1 tablespoon vegetable oil 1 lb. boneless beef sirloin steak, cut into
1" cubes

1 can (14.5-oz.) Hunt's diced tomatoes 2 packages brown gravy mix

1 tablespoon Worcestershire sauce 1 bag (16-oz.) frozen vegetables for
stew (potatoes

carrots, celery, onion)

Heat oil over medium-high heat in a large skillet. Season beef with salt
and pepper. Add beef, in batches if necessary, to brown. Set aside. Add
tomatoes, gravy mix blended with 2 cups cool water, Worcestershire sauce
and vegetables; heat to boil. Return beef to pan; reduce heat. Cover;
cook 10 minutes or until vegetables are tender, stirring occasionally.
Season to taste.

**Creole Vegetable and Braised Beef Stew**

3 tablespoons all-purpose flour 1 tablespoon Creole seasoning

2 lbs. sirloin, cut into 1" cubes 3 tablespoons olive oil

1 large sweet onion, diced 1 large red bell pepper, diced

4 garlic cloves, minced 1 cup dry red wine

5 celery ribs, sliced 4 medium carrots, thinly sliced

1 (10-oz.) can Rotel tomatoes 2 teaspoons beef bouillon granules

1 (10-oz.) pkg. frozen sliced okra, thawed 1 (10-oz.) pkg. frozen lima
beans, thawed

1 (16-oz.) pkg. frozen corn kernels, thawed

Stir together flour and Creole seasoning; dredge beef in mixture. Brown
beef in hot olive oil in a 5-qt. casserole over medium-high heat 5
minutes. Add onion, bell pepper and garlic; sauté 2 minutes. Add wine,
stirring to remove browned particles from bottom of pan. Add celery and
carrot, and cook 2 minutes. Add tomatoes and next 4 ingredients. Bring
to a boil; cover, reduce heat to medium-low, and simmer 30 minutes.
Serves 8-10.

**Smoked Sausage Soup**

16 oz. smoked sausage, sliced 1 cup chopped onion

2 teaspoons olive oil 2 (14 ½ oz.) cans diced tomatoes

3 ½ cup hot water 1 cup elbow macaroni, uncooked

2 cubes chicken bouillon 1 (18-oz.) can kidney beans, drained

Ground red pepper, optional

Brown sausage and onion in olive oil over medium-high heat for 5
minutes. Add tomatoes, water, macaroni and bouillon; bring to a boil.
Add beans. Reduce heat, cover and simmer about 15 minutes or until pasta
is tender. Season to taste with red pepper (optional). 8-10 servings.

**Beefy Harvest Soup**

1 pound ground round 4 cups water

1 can (14 ½ oz.) Italian-style stewed 1 ½ cups frozen mixed vegetables

Tomatoes, undrained 4 teaspoons instant beef bouillon granules

1 cup uncooked large elbow macaroni 6 oz. smoked beef sausage, cut into
½ " pieces

Salt and pepper to taste

Brown ground beef in large non-stick skillet over medium heat 8-10
minutes or until beef is not pink, breaking up into ¾" crumbles. Remove
from skillet with slotted spoon. Meanwhile combine water, tomatoes,
mixed vegetables and bouillon granules in large saucepan; bring to a
boil. Stir in macaroni and ground beef; return to a boil. Reduce heat;
simmer, uncovered, 8 minutes, stirring occasionally. Stir in sausage;
continue simmering 2-4 minutes or until macaroni is tender. Season with
salt and pepper, as desired. Cook's tip: Other pasta shapes, such as
rotini, bow ties, medium shells or ditalini, may be substituted for
large elbow macaroni; adjust cooking time as needed.

**Greek Chili**

1 lb. ground beef 2 medium onions, chopped

1/8 teaspoon ground garlic powder 2 tablespoons chili powder

½ teaspoon allspice Dash A-1 sauce

¾ tablespoons vinegar ½ can tomato sauce

½ teaspoon cinnamon ½ teaspoon red pepper

2 dry peppers Salt and pepper to taste

3 medium bay leaves 1 pint water

Brown meat and onions and drain. Add remaining ingredients and cook 3
hours, stirring occasionally.

**Spicy Franks and Beans**

Recipe.com/dollar

2 cups dried black-eyed peas 2 teaspoons vegetable oil

1 ½ cups chopped onion 1 cup chopped green sweet pepper

1 cup sliced celery 3 cloves garlic, minced (optional)

½ (14-oz.) package small, cooked 1/3 (14-oz.) package andouille sausage

Smoked sausage links links, sliced

1 (15-oz.) can tomato sauce 1 (14 ½ -oz.) can diced tomatoes, undrained

3 ½ cups water

Preheat oven to 350°. Coat a 3-quart baking dish with nonstick cooking
spray. Rinse peas; drain well. Spread peas into bottom of dish; set
aside. In a 4-quart Dutch oven heat oil over medium heat. Add onion,
pepper, celery and garlic; cook and stir 3 minutes. Add sausage links
and slices; cook and stir 2 minutes more. Stir in tomato sauce,
undrained diced tomatoes and water. Bring to boiling. Pour tomato
mixture over beans. Cover tightly with foil. Bake 1 hour. Uncover. Bake
20-30 minutes more or until beans are tender, stirring once or twice.
Makes 8 servings.

**Chicken Gumbo**

Liz Pennick

1 frying size chicken (or equivalent in 2 cups water

Chicken breasts 2 cans cut okra

2 cans tomato soup with 1 can of 1 can tomatoes

Water added 1 can cream style corn

3 large onions, sliced thin 1 teaspoon sugar

Salt and pepper, to taste 1 ½ cups cooked rice

Brown the chicken in fat; then boil it until it comes off the bone. Make
gravy. To the 2 cups water add tomatoes, tomato soup and gravy. Cook
okra and onions until tender. Then add to the above mixture. Bring to a
boil and cook slowly for 2 hours. Take chicken off the bone and add to
the gumbo. After it comes to a boil; put corn in last -- about 10
minutes before done. Add salt and pepper to taste. Add rice when ready
to serve.
