---
layout: recipe
title: "Vegetables"
category: "Sides & Salads"
---

# Vegetables

**Asparagus**

Judy Sport

1 ½ lbs. fresh asparagus ¾ cups chopped pecans

2 tablespoons canola oil ¼ cup apple cider vinegar

¼ cup soy sauce ¼ cup sugar

Pepper to taste

Steam asparagus until tender; drain and run cold water over it. Let it
sit a few minutes in cold water; then drain. Put in Ziploc bag. Combine
all remaining ingredients and pour over asparagus in bag. Put in
refrigerator. Prepare a day before ready to eat.

**Broccoli Casserole #1**

> Julie Kelley

2 packages chopped broccoli 3 tablespoons flour

2 tablespoons butter ½ cup chicken broth

½ cup sour cream 1 slice Swiss or cheddar cheese

Salt & pepper to taste Lemon juice

Pepperidge Farm Herb Bread Stuffing

Cook broccoli and drain. Mix flour and melted butter; add other
ingredients, except stuffing. Season with salt and pepper and lots of
lemon juice. Mix broccoli and sauce; place in buttered casserole.
Sprinkle with Pepperidge Farm Herb Bread Stuffing crumbs; dot with
butter. Cook at 350° for 30 minutes.

**Broccoli Casserole #2**

> Sharon Hutson

2 packages frozen chopped broccoli 1 can cream of chicken soup

1 small box Uncle Ben's Long-Grain & 1 can water chestnuts, diced and
drained

Wild Rice 1 jar Jalapeno cheese whiz

Cook broccoli; cook rice. Mix together with rest of ingredients. There
is no need to do additional cooking, but if prepared the day before, it
can be heated in the 350° oven until warm.

**Broccoli Puff**

2 packages frozen chopped broccoli 1 can cream of mushroom soup

½ cup mayonnaise 2 eggs, beaten

1 ½ cups shredded sharp cheddar cheese 2 tablespoons minced onion

½ teaspoon salt ¼ teaspoon pepper

1 cup cheese cracker crumbs 2 tablespoons butter, melted

Cook broccoli in boiling salted water for 5 minutes; drain. Mix with
soup, mayonnaise, eggs, cheese, onion, salt and pepper. Turn into
greased shallow 1 ½ quart casserole dish. Top with crumbs; dot with
butter. Bake at 350° for 40 minutes. 6-8 servings.

(This is better prepared ahead of time and kept in refrigerated until
baking time.)

**Jalapeno Cabbage**

> Linda Owens

1 head cabbage 2 cups white sauce (see below)

4 oz. processed cheese spread with ¼ cup melted butter

Jalapeno pepper, cut into ½ "cubes 1 cup crushed saltines

Chop cabbage and boil 8 minutes; drain. Mix white sauce with cheese.
Pour over cabbage in buttered casserole dish. Melt butter and saltines;
sprinkle over cabbage. Bake at 350° for 30-40 minutes.

*[White Sauce]{.underline}*: 2 cups milk 4 tablespoons flour

4 tablespoons butter ¼ teaspoon salt

Melt butter in skillet; stir in flour and salt. Gradually add milk and
stir constantly until sauce thickens.

**Cabbage Casserole**

> Martha John Allison

One head of cabbage, chopped 1 stick butter

1 small onion, chopped 1 lb. Velveeta cheese

1 can cream of mushroom soup Cracker crumbs, i.e. Ritz, HiHo, etc.

Additional butter, if desired

Parboil cabbage until tender; drain extremely well. Sauté chopped onion
in butter. Melt Velveeta cheese and soup. Mix all above ingredients,
except cracker crumbs and additional butter. Pour into greased casserole
dish. Top with either plain or buttered cracker crumbs. Bake at 350°
until bubbly. (You may substitute squash for cabbage.)

**Cabbage Casserole**

1 small head cabbage 2 medium onions

1 cup rice 1 pound ground beef

1 medium jar spaghetti sauce 2 cups grated cheese

Salt and pepper Garlic salt

Finely chop cabbage and onions. Layer in casserole. Brown dry rice in
oven and spread over cabbage. Sauté beef, garlic salt, salt and pepper
to taste. Spread over cabbage mixture. Pour spaghetti sauce over beef
and cook 350° for 1 hour. Spread cheese over it and let melt. Serves
6-8.

**German Bavarian Red Cabbage**

1 head sliced red cabbage 4 tablespoons heated oil

1 onion, chopped 1 ½ dices apples

2 tablespoons vinegar Salt and pepper, to taste

¼ teaspoon cloves 1 ½ bay leaves

1 teaspoon sugar 4 tablespoons hot water

In oil, lower heat and add cabbage; lower heat and simmer; add onion,
apples, vinegar, salt and pepper. Cook over low heat until apples are
completely disappeared. Add cloves, bay leaves and sugar (before apples
are finished cooking). Add 4 tablespoons hot water and cook 45 minutes
to 1 hour.

**Carrot Soufflé**

2 (1-lb.) bags frozen carrots\* ½ cup butter

3 tablespoons flour 1 cup sugar

1 teaspoon baking powder 1 teaspoon vanilla

3 eggs

Cook carrots until tender; drain. Put carrots in blender or food
processor and puree. Add butter (if carrots are still hot, the butter
should melt; otherwise melt butter before adding to carrots) and all
other ingredients. Cook in a greased 1 ½ quart baking dish at 350° for
45 minutes.

\*I use fresh carrots; scraped and cut in big chunks.

**Gourmet Carrots**

3 cups sliced carrots 4 strips cooked bacon, crumbled

1 tablespoon minced onion, optional ½ teaspoon salt

¼ teaspoon pepper 3 tablespoons brown sugar (or Splenda)

3 tablespoons melted butter

Cook carrots until tender; drain. Add all ingredients except bacon. Pour
into greased baking dish. Top with bacon. Bake at 350° 20-30 minutes.

**Marinated Carrots**

2 lbs. carrots, sliced 1 small green pepper, chopped

1 medium onion, chopped ½ cup vegetable oil

1 can tomato soup 1 cup sugar

¾ cup vinegar 1 teaspoon prepared mustard

1 teaspoon Worcestershire sauce

Cook carrots until fork tender; drain and cool. Put carrots, onions and
peppers in a bowl, alternating layers. Blend remaining ingredients; pour
over carrots. Refrigerate. Served cold. Best after several days.

**Carrot Soufflé**

2 (1-lb.) bags frozen carrots ½ cup butter

1 cup sugar 3 tablespoons flour

1 teaspoon baking powder 1 teaspoon vanilla

3 eggs

Cook carrots until tender; drain. Put carrots and all ingredients in
blender and puree. Cook in greased 1 ½ quart baking dish at 350° for 45
minutes.

**Sweet-and-Sour Glazed Carrots and Green Beans**

4 oz. bacon 1 lb. carrots, peeled and cut into ¼ "thick rounds

1 lb. green beans, trimmed and cut into 2" 2 tablespoons brown sugar

1 tablespoon molasses 1-2 tablespoons balsamic vinegar

Salt and pepper to taste

In a large deep skillet over medium heat, cook the bacon until crisp.
Transfer the bacon to a paper towel-lined plate to drain, leaving the
drippings in the pan. Once the bacon has cooled, crumble and set aside.

Return the skillet to the heat and add the carrots. Cook for 8 minutes,
or until just starting to become tender. Add the green beans, then cook
for another 8-10 minutes, or until the vegetables are tender. Add the
brown sugar, molasses and vinegar. Stir until a thick glaze forms. Cook
until bubbly all over and slightly thick and sticky. Season with salt
and pepper. Serve, topped with the crumbled bacon.

**Corn Casserole #1**

> Pat Rhodes

1 package Mr. Quiggs' yellow rice 1 can Mexicorn, drained

1 can celery soup 1 stick butter

Grated cheddar cheese

Cook yellow rice by directions on package. Add butter, soup and corn.
Mix and put into casserole dish. Top with cheese. Bake in 350° oven for
20-30 minutes.

**Corn Fritters**

> Paula Deen

2 eggs, beaten 1 cup milk

1 ¼ cup self-rising cornmeal mix 1 ¼ cup all-purpose flour

1 teaspoon salt ¼ cup sugar

4 tablespoons melted butter 1 can creamed corn

1 can whole kernel corn, drained Vegetable oil for frying

Add dry ingredients together. Add eggs with milk and both corns. Add dry
ingredients into liquid ingredients. Add melted butter. Heat grease to
325°. (Don't get too hot or fritters will burn before cook throughout.).
Take tablespoon and dip in water each time and drop spoon of mixture in
oil. Fry about 3 minutes; keep fritters turning so they don't brown too
much on one side. Drain on paper towels.

**Corn Casserole #2**

2 eggs, beaten 2 tablespoons sugar

2 tablespoons flour Salt and pepper, to taste

1 red pepper or pimentos ¼ lb. cheese, grated

2 tablespoons butter 1 can whole kernel corn

Mix all ingredients and bake at 350° for 20-30 minutes.

**Corn Pudding**

2 eggs, beaten 3 tablespoons melted butter

2 teaspoons sugar ¼ cup plain flour

¼ teaspoon salt ¼ teaspoon baking powder

1/8 teaspoon nutmeg ¾ cup milk

1 (16-oz.) can creamed corn

Mix flour, salt, baking powder and nutmeg; set aside. Put butter in
casserole. Mix eggs and sugar; whisk in the dry ingredients. Add milk
and corn; mix well. Bake uncovered 1 hour at 350°.

**Memphis Corn Pudding**

> Danna Goodson

1 (8 1/2 -- oz.) box Jiffy Corn Muffin Mix 1 (11-oz.) can shoe peg corn
with juice

1 (16-oz.) can creamed corn 1 cup sour cream

1 stick butter, melted

Melt butter in large bowl (I do this in the microwave). Mix in all other
ingredients until well blended. Pour into 2-quart baking dish. Bake
uncovered at 350° for 40-50 minutes until lightly browned and set.

**Grilled Herbed Corn**

1 stick butter, softened 2 tablespoons chopped parsley

2 tablespoons chopped chives ½ teaspoon salt

Dash of cayenne 8 ears of corn, husked

Prepare a medium fire or medium grill. Blend butter with spices. Spread
1 heaping tablespoon herb butter over each ear of corn. Wrap corn
individually in foil. Grill 4-6 "over glowing coals, turning
occasionally, until tender, about 15-20 minutes.

**Mr. G's Corn Squash Casserole**

> Doug Cumuze, Mr. G's

1 onion ½ pound of butter

2 cans (12-oz. each) creamed corn 12 medium squash, pre-boiled

1 teaspoon chicken seasoning 6 eggs, beaten

Dab of sugar 1 teaspoon baking powder

Sauté onion in butter. Combine other ingredients with onion and bake at
350° for 1 hour.

**Green Beans**

4 (16-oz.) cans whole Blue Lake Green 2 (8 1/2 --oz.) cans sliced water
chestnuts, drained

Beans 10 strips bacon, cooked & crumbled

Salt & Pepper to taste 1 cup chicken bouillon

Sauté water chestnuts lightly in small amount of butter. Season with
salt and pepper. Drain and heat beans in chicken bouillon. When ready to
serve, drain beans, season (if needed) and top with chestnuts and
crumbled bacon.

**Sweet and Sour Green Beans**

> Nell Brown

1 quart green beans, cooked 1 medium onion, chopped

8 slices bacon, fried and crumbled ½ cup vinegar

½ cup sugar ½ cup bacon grease

In long casserole dish, layer beans, onions and bacon. Repeat layers.
Add vinegar, sugar and bacon grease. Pour over beans, etc. Bake
uncovered at 350° for 30 minutes. Bake an additional 30 minutes covered.

**Mama's Green Beans**

> Barbara Duke (by way of Lynn Mathison)

3 cans whole green bean, ¾ cup sugar

drained & washed 1 teaspoon salt

½ teaspoon pepper 1/3 cup oil

1\` onion, thinly sliced 1 can sliced mushrooms, optional

Boil vinegar, sugar and salt; cool. Add beans and rest of ingredients.
Marinate 24 hours. Serves 6.

**Green Beans**

1 stick butter, melted ¾ cup brown sugar

1 tablespoon lemon juice Garlic powder, sprinkle as desired

2 cans whole green beans 4-6 slices bacon

Toasted almond slivers

Mix butter, brown sugar, lemon juice and garlic powder (if desired). Add
drained green beans and marinate several hours (preferably overnight).
You can use whole frozen beans if desired; blanch them but don't
overcook.

Fry bacon but don't get too done.

Remove beans from the marinade. Place in a greased pan. Cut each slice
of bacon into 4-5 pieces; sprinkle on top of beans. Cover and bake for
40 minutes at 300°. Take cover off and bake 10 minutes longer. Sprinkle
with toasted almond slivers.

**Green Beans Supreme**

> Olivet Willis

1/3 cup minced onion 2 tablespoons butter

2 tablespoons flour 1 teaspoon salt

¼ teaspoon pepper 1 cup sour cream

2 cans French style green beans, drained ½ cup grated sharp cheddar
cheese

Simmer onions in melted butter; add flour, salt and pepper and mix well.
Add sour cream and mix. Blend with beans and bake with cheese on top for
15 minutes at 350°.

**Swiss-Sour Green Beans**

1 quart green beans 1 tablespoon butter

¼ cup dry bread crumbs 2 tablespoons butter

2 tablespoons flour 1 teaspoon salt

¼ teaspoon pepper 1 cup sour cream

1 teaspoon mustard ½ cup Swiss cheese

1 tablespoon instant minced onion

Cook beans until tender. Brown bread crumbs in 1 tablespoon butter. Heat
2 tablespoons butter in a pan; add flour, salt and pepper and heat until
it bubbles. Remove from heat and add sour cream and mustard. Add beans,
cheese and onion. Toss gently until mixed. Turn into a greased 1 qt.
casserole dish. Top with crumbs. Bake 10 minutes at 350°. (If this is
prepared earlier and refrigerated, the cooking time will be longer.)

**Green Beans**

1 stick butter ¾ cup brown sugar

1 tablespoon lemon juice Garlic powder (sprinkle as desired)

2 cans whole green beans, drained Several slices bacon

Toasted almond slivers

Mix butter (melted), brown sugar and lemon juice. Add well-drained green
beans to mixture and marinate several hours or overnight (preferably).
You can use whole frozen beans; blanch them first but do not overcook.

Fry several slices of bacon but don't let get too done.

Remove the beans from the marinade and place in a greased pan (or
casserole dish). Cut each slice of bacon into 4 or 5 pieces; sprinkle on
top of the beans. Cover and bake for 40 minutes at 300°. Take cover off
and bake for 10 minutes longer. Sprinkle with toasted almond slivers.

**Giant Beans Baked with Tomatoes**

1 ¾ cup dried large lima beans 2/3 cup olive oil

1 large chopped onion 1 celery stalk, sliced thin

2 carrots, peeled and cubed 1 teaspoon oregano

1 (14-oz.) can chopped tomatoes 2 tablespoons tomato puree

½ teaspoon sugar 3 tablespoons chopped parsley

Salt and pepper, to taste

Place beans in large bowl; cover with cold water and soak overnight. The
next day, drain the beans and rinse. Put beans in pan; cover with cold
water and bring to a boil. NO SALT AT THIS POINT! Cover and cook until
the beans are almost done, but not mushy. Drain beans; discard water and
set beans aside. Preheat oven to 350°. Heat oil; add onions and sauté
until golden. Add celery, carrots and herbs. Stir in tomatoes and cook
10 minutes. Add tomato puree, beans, parsley, salt and pepper. Put in
baking dish and bake 30 minutes.

**Tangy Beans 'N Corn**

1 (9-oz.) package diagonal-cut beans, 1 (10-oz.) package whole kernel
corn, frozen

frozen in butter sauce, that clings in butter sauce, that clings

1 (2-oz.) jar sliced pimento, drained 3 tablespoons pasteurized process
cheese spread

1 tablespoon diced onion 2 tablespoons sliced black olives

2 teaspoons prepared mustard

Remove frozen vegetables from pouches; place side by side on a large
piece of heavy duty aluminum foil. Top with pimento, cheese spread,
onion, olives and mustard. Bring edges of foil together over center of
vegetables. Fold over with a double fold, leaving a little space for
expansion of steam. Seal ends securely. Place on grill over hot coals
for 45 -- 60 minutes, turning occasionally. Open foil and stir to
combine. Serves 6-8.

**Black-eyed Pea Casserole**

1 package Picsweet Black-eyed peas ¼ cup chopped onion

¼ cup chopped green pepper 1 can tomatoes

1 cup cooked rice 1 cup diced ham

Prepare peas according to cooking directions. Mix with remaining
ingredients. Stir well and season to taste (salt, pepper, etc.) Pour
into a butter casserole and bake 45 minutes at 350°.

**Hopping John**

1 cup dried black-eyed peas 1 medium-size ham hock

1 medium onion, diced 2 stalks chopped celery

1 small bay leaf 1-3 cups water

½ teaspoon salt ¼ teaspoon pepper

1 cup uncooked rice

Put the peas, ham hock, onion, celery and by leaf in a saucepan. Add the
water and seasonings. Simmer until the peas are tender. Cook the rice
according to the package directions. Combine the peas, rice, and ham cut
from the bone and minces, and liquid form the peas. Simmer for a few
minutes to combine the flavors.

**Lima Beans**

> Sarah Tyus

2 lbs. dry lima beans or 4 cans 1 large onion, chopped

1 green pepper, chopped 3 teaspoons dry mustard

1 can tomato soup 1 cup brown sugar

½ lb. bacon, cut into 1" strips

If you use dry beans, cover with water and soak overnight. If you use
canned beans, drain all but one can (use juice from it). Mix all
ingredients and bake 1 hour at 375° or put in crock pot and cook 12-14
hours.

**Red Beans**

1 lb. red beans, soaked overnight 1 onion, chopped

2 stalks celery, sliced Garlic, minced (optional)

Cured ham, enough for seasoning 28-oz. can chopped tomatoes

1 teaspoon thyme 6-8 bay leaves

1 package smoked link sausage

Precook the sausage to remove as much grease as possible. Then slice in
rounds. Drain red beans. Add all ingredients and put into crockpot;
cover with water. Cook until beans are tender or desired doneness.

**Red Beans and Rice**

8 oz. (1 cup) dry kidney beans, soaked 1 ¾ cup chicken stock

overnight 1 cup drained, crushed canned tomatoes

¾ cup water 1 tablespoon Worcestershire sauce

2 bay leaves ½ teaspoon salt

¼ teaspoon Tabasco sauce 4 oz. slab bacon, rind removed, cut into ½
"cubes

1 small onion, minced 2 gloves garlic, minced (optional)

4 cups cooked white rice

Preheat oven to 350°. Combine stock, tomatoes, water, Worcestershire
sauce, bay leaves, salt and tabasco in a Dutch oven, and bring to a
boil. Drain beans, and add to the mixture. Stir in bacon, onion and
garlic (optional).

Cover the Dutch oven and transfer to oven. Bake until beans are tender,
about 1 ½ hours. Let dish stand for 10 minutes before serving over war
rice. Makes 4 servings.

**Okra Fritters**

¼ cup cornmeal ¼ cup flour

2 cups fresh or frozen okra (cut in circles) ½ cup finely chopped onion

1 large egg ¼ cup buttermilk

1 teaspoon salt Pepper to taste

Oil for frying (1/2 canola & ½ peanut

will keep from soaking up grease

Heat oil in heavy skillet, using just enough to cover the bottom of the
skillet. In bowl, mix flour, meal, salt and pepper. Add onions and okra
to coat; set aside. In a small bowl, mix together egg and buttermilk,
and add to okra mixture; stir until just combined. Drop ¼ cup mound with
a spatula. Fry until golden brown, which usually takes 4-5 minutes per
side. If browning too quickly, lower heat. Turn only once. Drain on
paper towels and sprinkle with a little salt.

**Okra Surprise**

3 tablespoons butter 4-5 large tomatoes, peeled and chopped

3 cups sliced okra (about ¾ pound) 2 cups fresh corn, cut from cob

¾ teaspoon salt ¼ teaspoon pepper

Melt butter in a large skillet. Stir in remaining ingredients; cover and
cook over medium heat 15 minutes or until vegetables are tender. Yield
8-10 servings.

**Sautéed Corn and Okra**

8 slices bacon 2 cups fresh corn, cut from cob

2 cups sliced okra (about ½ pound) Salt and pepper to taste

Cook bacon in large skillet until crisp; remove bacon and set aside,
reserving 3 tablespoons drippings in skillet. Crumble bacon, and set
aside. Sauté okra in drippings, stirring frequently, for 5 minutes. Add
corn to skillet; cook 5 minutes longer or until vegetables are tender.
Stir in crumbled bacon, and season with salt and pepper. Yield: 4-6
servings.

**Stewed Okra, Corn and Tomatoes**

> Harold Bowdoin

4-6 thick slices bacon, diced 2-3 sweet onions, diced

1 lb. okra, sliced 2-3 lbs. tomatoes, diced

Olive oil or bacon drippings, if needed 5-6 sweet corn, cut off the cob

1 cup chicken broth, homemade, if available

Sauté bacon until crisp. Remove browned bacon bits to a plate and
reserve. Cook onions in rendered bacon fat, until beginning to brown.
Add okra, and cook 3-5 minutes. Add tomatoes and cook for 5-6 minutes.
Add extra olive oil or bacon drippings, if needed. Add corn and broth
and simmer for about 5 minutes. Add salt and pepper to taste. Serve in
bowl with bacon bits strewn over the top.

\*Harold prepared this for a covered dish supper the Grove Park
"farmers" had. He made this comment: "These are the quantities we used
for tonight's meal. Typically for us we use about ¼ - 1/3 these
quantities.

**Golden Baked Onions**

> Joy Yates

Butter 1 stick butter

6 medium Vidalia onions, cut in rings 1 (10 ¾ oz.) can cream of chicken
soup

1 cup milk Salt and pepper to taste

¾ lb. Gruyere or Swiss cheese, grated French bread slices (about ½ to
3/4 "thick)

Melted butter

Preheat oven to 350°. Butter 13x9x2" baking dish. Melt ½ cup butter in
skillet over medium heat; add onion rings and cook until tender,
stirring frequently, about 15 minutes. Transfer onions to prepared dish.
Combine soup, milk, salt and pepper in bowl. Pour over onions. Sprinkle
with cheese. Dip bread slices in melted butter on one side. Arrange
buttered side up over onion mixture to cover completely. Bake until
bread is browned, about 30 minutes. Serve hot.

**Otto's Onion Pie**

3 large onions, peeled and sliced thinly 3 tablespoons butter

1 10" pie shell 1 cup milk, divided

1 cup cottage cheese 1 cup dairy sour cream

1 teaspoon salt 1/8 teaspoon pepper

3 eggs, beaten 1 tablespoon flour

1/3 cup cheddar cheese, grated cooked bacon or ham, optional

Prebake pie crust for just a few minutes; this will keep the crust from
tasting "doughy" when pie is cooked. Don't let it get done. Simmer
onions in butter until soft. Turn into the prebaked pie shell. Combine ¾
cup milk, cottage cheese, sour cream, salt and pepper and eggs; mix
well. Blend ¼ cup milk and flour. Add to sour cream mixture. Pour over
onions in shell. Sprinkle with cheese. Bake for 30-35 minutes at 325°.
Pie will be firm in center. If you want to add cooked bacon or ham, add
with sour cream mixture.

**Cheese Potatoes**

> Sharon Hutson

1 (2-lb.) package frozen hash browns, 1 ½ -2 sticks butter

Diced, not shredded 1 pint half & half

12-oz. shredded cheddar cheese 2/3 lb. Velveeta cheese

Place frozen potatoes in greased casserole baking dish. Melt next 4
ingredients together. Pour over potatoes -- do not stir! Let sit for 4
hours (if you have time). Bake for 1 hour at 350°

**New Potato Casserole**

10 new potatoes 1 green onion, optional

8-oz. sour cream 1 can cream of chicken soup

1 jar Real Bacon Bits 8-oz. shredded cheddar cheese

Boil washed, unpeeled and cup up potatoes in salted water until done.
Mix onion, sour cream, soup and bacon bits; fold into potatoes. Bake at
350° for 25minutes. Remove from oven and cover with cheese. Bake an
additional 10 minutes or until cheese is melted.

**Creamy Potato Toss**

6 cups cooked potato slices 1 (8-oz.) bottle Kraft Buttermilk Creamy

1 cu0p broccoli flowerets Reduced Calorie Dressing

¾ cup thin carrot slices ½ cup celery slices

½ cup cooked peas, chilled 1/8 teaspoon pepper

Combine ingredients; mix lightly. Chill. Serve in lettuce-lined bowl. 8
servings.

**Sweet Potato Casserole**

> Liz Pennick

3 cups grated raw sweet potatoes 1 ½ cup sugar

1 stick melted butter ¾ cup buttermilk

½ cup sweet milk 1 cup chopped nuts

½ teaspoon cloves ½ teaspoon cinnamon

2 beaten eggs

Mix all ingredients except eggs. Fold in eggs. Bake 1 hour at 300° in
uncovered dish (greased). Check for doneness; you may need to bake a
little longer until set.

**Squash Delight Casserole #1**

1 lb. fresh or frozen squash ½ stick butter

1 teaspoon sugar ½ cup mayonnaise

½ cup chopped onion ¼ cup chopped green pepper, optional

1 egg ½ cup grated cheddar cheese

¼ cup pimento Salt and pepper to taste

Cracker crumbs

Cook squash until tender; drain. Add butter and mash. Add remaining
ingredients except crumbs. Pour into greased casserole dish. Top with
buttered cracker crumbs. Bake at 350° for 35-40 minutes.

**Squash Casserole #2**

> Bryan Jackson

1 lb. squash 1 ½ cup grated cheddar cheese

¼ stick butter 1 egg

¼ cup milk 1 medium onion

8 Ritz crackers 1 can cream of chicken soup

Additional butter and Ritz cracker crumbs

Boil squash and onion in salted water until tender; drain. Add cheese
and butter. Add beaten egg and milk. Add cracker crumbs. Season to taste
with salt and pepper. Pour into greased casserole. Add buttered cracker
crumbs on top. Bake at 350° until brown (about 35-40 minutes.)

**Mrs. Burton's Squash Ring**

2 lbs. yellow squash 2 medium onions

2 medium green peppers, optional ¼ stick butter

2 eggs ¼ cup sugar

Salt and pepper to taste

Sauté onion and pepper in butter. Cook squash until tender in salted
water. Drain squash and add to sautéed vegetables. Add eggs and sugar.
Cook on top of stove until set (a spoon of mixture should be set when
dropped; if it doesn't, add 2 tablespoons of flour). Bake in a
well-greased and floured ring for 1 hour at 300°. Put green beans or
asparagus in the center of the ring.

**Squash Casserole #3**

2 lbs. yellow squash 2 medium onions

2 tablespoons sugar Salt to taste

2 cans cream of mushroom soup 1 lb. mild cheddar cheese, grated

1 box Ritz crackers

Cook squash, onions, sugar and salt until tender; drain water. Heat
soup. Crush crackers. Alternate layers of squash mixture, cheese, soup
and crackers in casserole. Make sure cracker crumbs top dish. Bake in
350° oven until bubbly and brown on top.

**Squash Casserole #4**

> Betty Henry

1 lb. squash 10-12 crackers

¼ cup melted butter 2 eggs, separated

1 onion 1 cup grated cheese, or more

½ cup milk Salt and pepper to taste

Cook squash and onion together until tender. Drain well. Separate eggs.
Add all ingredients except egg whites. Beat egg whites until stiff. Fold
into squash mixture. Bake 30-40 minutes at 350°. Add extra cheese to top
during last minutes. You may make ahead and freeze. If you do, seal it
thoroughly.

**Squash Casserole**

> Barb Till

2 ½ lbs. of fresh squash 1 cup sour cream

1 cup Parmesan cheese, grated 1 cup shredded sharp cheddar cheese

½ cup mayonnaise (Hellman's) 1 cup finely chopped onion

1 stick butter ¾ box Progresso Panko Italian Style bread crumbs

or crumbled Ritz crackers

Clean, slice and boil squash with a little salt until tender. Drain
squash and mash with fork or potato masher. Add sour cream, cheeses,
mayo, and onions and stir together. Pour into greased casserole dish.
Melt butter and add to bread crumbs. Spread bread crumb mixture on top
of squash. Bake uncovered at 350° until hot and bubbly.

**Squash Puppies**

¾ cup self-rising cornmeal ¼ cup all-purpose flour

½ teaspoon salt ¼ teaspoon black pepper

½ teaspoon ground red pepper 6 medium-size yellow squash, cooked and
mashed

½ cup buttermilk 1 small onion, minced

1 large egg Vegetable oil

½ teaspoon salt

Combine cornmeal, flour, salt, black and red peppers in a large bowl.
Stir together squash and buttermilk, onion and egg; add to cornmeal
mixture, stirring until blended. Pour oil to a depth of 1/2 "into a deep
cast-iron skillet; heat to 350°. Droop batter by tablespoonfuls in
batches, into oil; fry 3 minutes on each side or until golden brown.
Drain on paper towels; sprinkle evenly with salt. Makes 20 squash
puppies.

**Tomato Pies**

> Lynn Mathison

Individual Bama Pie Shells (3" size) Canned or fresh chopped tomatoes

½ cup parmesan cheese, grated ½ cup grated cheddar cheese

1 cup mayonnaise

Place tomatoes in pie shell to fill. Mix cheeses and mayo. Spread on top
of tomatoes. Bake at 350° to brown. Excellent for brunch or a luncheon.

**Cheese Grilled Tomatoes**

4 firm ripe tomatoes ½ teaspoon salt

Black pepper, to taste ¼ cup fresh bread crumbs

¼ cup shredded sharp process American 1 tablespoon butter, melted

Cheese 1 tablespoon chopped parsley

Prepare a medium-hot fire. Cut a ¼ to 1/2 "slice from top of each
tomato. Sprinkle with salt and pepper. In a small bowl, combine bread
crumbs, cheese and melted butter. Toss to mix well. Sprinkle bread crumb
mixture over tomatoes and top with parsley. Wrap tomatoes individually
in oiled squares of aluminum foil. Fold edges to seal. Place packages on
grill 4-6" over coals. Grill without turning, until tomatoes are heated
through and cheese is melted, about 20 minutes.

**Tomatoes Vinaigrette**

4 large tomatoes, peeled 6 tablespoons chopped parsley

1 clove garlic, crushed 6 tablespoons olive oil

2 tablespoons cider vinegar 1 teaspoon salt

½ teaspoon dried leaf basil 1/8 teaspoon black pepper

Cut tomatoes into medium slices. Place in bowl; sprinkle with parsley.
Mix together garlic, oil, vinegar, salt, basil and pepper and pour over
tomatoes and parsley. Chill 3 hours or overnight. Makes 4-6 servings.

**Tomatoes Provençale**

> Elaine Sanctuary

4 large tomatoes 1 clove crushed garlic

2 tablespoons finely chopped onion 2 tablespoons finely chopped parsley

½ teaspoon basil, crumbled ½ teaspoon salt

½ teaspoon pepper 2-3 tablespoons olive oil

Slice tomatoes and place on dish. Spread combined oil and spices and
spread on tomatoes. Chill for several hours or overnight. This can be
served hot or cold.

**Marinated Tomatoes**

> Carol Frederick

Red, ripe tomatoes Basil

Italian Dressing

Slice tomatoes; sprinkle with basil; pour salad dressing over this. Make
ahead of serving, at least 30 minutes.

**Parmesan-Baked Tomatoes**

6 ripe medium tomatoes with stems, 1 ½ cups freshly grated Parmesan
cheese

if possible ¼ cup extra virgin olive oil, plus more for

oiling pan

Preheat oven to 400°. Cut ¼ "off tops of tomatoes, saving tops. Using
tablespoon, scoop out a little of tomato pulp. In small bowl, put
cheese, olive oil and freshly ground pepper. Mix thoroughly. Pack
tomatoes evenly with cheese mixture, making sure surface is completely
covered. Place tomatoes on lightly oiled baking sheet and place reserved
tops directly on baking sheet. Bake for 10 minutes. Remove tops with
spatula. Put tomatoes under broiler until cheese turns golden, about 1
minute. Carefully replace tops. Serve hot or room temperature. Drizzle
with additional oil, if desired.

**Fried Green Tomatoes**

¾ cup self-rising flour ¼ cup cornmeal

¼ teaspoon salt ¼ teaspoon pepper

¾ cup milk 3-4 green tomatoes cut into ¼" slices

Vegetable oil

Combine flour, cornmeal, salt, pepper and milk; mix until smooth. Add
additional milk to thin, if necessary; batter should resemble pancake
batter. Working in batches, dip tomato slices into batter, allowing
excess batter to drip back into bowl. Fry in 2" hot oil (375°) in a
large heavy skillet until browned, turning once carefully with tongs.
Transfer to colander to drain.

(This note is from Lou: I would think it would be better to put them on
brown paper bag or paper towels to drain unless you are allowing them to
drain in a colander in single layer.)

**Fried Green Tomatoes**

This is the recipe Lou uses.

3-4 large green tomatoes 1 teaspoon salt

1 tablespoon sugar Black pepper, to taste

1 ½ cups yellow cornmeal mix, self-rising 3 tablespoons self-rising
flour

Canola oil

Wash tomatoes and slice ¼ to 1/2" thick. Place in colander and sprinkle
salt and sugar over slices. Let stand ½ to 1 hour to draw out juices.
(Juices will drain, so place in pan or over sink.) DO NOT PAT SLICES
DRY! Place meal, flour and pepper in gallon storage bag. Shake to blend.
Remove tomatoes from colander and put on wax paper for a few minutes.
Put 1-1 ½ "oil in non-stick skillet. Let temperature come to 350-400°.
Put a few tomato slices in bag of dry mixture and shake until coated
well. Shake off excess mixture and put tomatoes in hot oil. Fry about 5
minutes on each side (turn once) or until brown and done. Drain on brown
paper sack or paper towels. Salt a little.

**Turnip Green Casserole**

1 (15-oz.) can chopped turnip greens 2 tablespoons prepared horseradish

1 teaspoon sugar 2 eggs, slightly beaten

Salt and pepper to taste 1 cup shredded Cheddar cheese

½ (10-oz.) can cream of mushroom soup Panko crumbs

½ cup mayonnaise 1 tablespoon red wine vinegar

Blend turnip greens, sugar, salt, pepper, mushroom soup, mayonnaise, red
wine vinegar, horseradish, and eggs. Mix well. Spoon mixture into
casserole dish (sprayed with vegetable spray). Cover with cheese and
Panko crumbs and bake 1 hour at 350°. Serves 6-8.

**Eggplant Casserole**

2 large eggplants ½ cup chopped celery

¼ cup finely chopped green pepper 1 large onion, finely chopped

½ cup finely chopped fresh parsley ½ stick butter, melted

1 tablespoon sugar 2 eggs, beaten

Salt and pepper to taste 1 cup toasted breadcrumbs

½ cup sharp Cheddar cheese, grated

Peel and dice eggplant. Cook in salted water until tender. Drain and
mash. Add remaining ingredients except cheese. Mix well transfer to a
casserole dish. Top with cheese. Bake at 350° for 30 minutes.

\*I prefer to sauté the green pepper, onion and celery in the butter
until it is soft -- not brown; because I don't like to have big chunks
of these in the casserole.

**Eggplant Pie**

> Ken McKinney

1 medium eggplant 1 tablespoon butter

1 cup (4-oz.) grated extra-sharp Cheddar 2 slices buttered toast,
crumbled

cheese, divided 2 eggs, slightly beaten

1 teaspoon salt ¼ teaspoon cayenne pepper (optional)

Peel eggplant; cut into cubes; cover with water and simmer, covered
until eggplant is tender, about 20 minutes. Drain well and mash with a
fork. Mix with butter, ¾ cup cheese, crumbled toast, eggs and
seasonings. Pour into buttered casserole dish. Top with remaining
cheese. Bake at 350° until browned and bubbly, about 40-50 minutes.
Serves 4.

**Eggplant Parmesan**

1 eggplant, sliced in ¼ " thick slices 2 egg whites, beaten

Seasoned bread crumbs Canola or peanut oil for frying

Mozzarella cheese, fresh or shredded, for topping

Slice eggplant into ¼ " slices. Dip in egg whites, then coat with bread
crumbs. Fry until browned. Cover with mozzarella cheese. Broil until
cheese melts and bubbles. Ladle sauce\* over eggplant before serving.

\*Sauce:

Olive oil 1 onion, dices

1 stalk celery, cut into small pieces 1 clove garlic, diced or crushed

15 small or 10 medium, very ripe tomatoes, ½ yellow pepper, diced

Peeled and crushed\* 1 small carrot, cut into very small pieces

Pinch each of basil, parsley & oregano, Salt and pepper to taste

Fresh or dried, more to taste

In olive oil, cook diced onion, celery and garlic until soft and lightly
browned. Add remaining ingredients. Bring to boil; then simmer until
thick.

\*Canned petite cut tomatoes may be substituted.

**Summer Garden Medley**

> Claire Wash, Greenwood, South Carolina

¼ cup chopped onion 2 tablespoons butter, melted

2 cups fresh corn, cut from cob 3 medium tomatoes, peeled and cubed

4 small yellow squash, sliced 1 teaspoon salt

¾ teaspoon dried whole oregano ½ teaspoon sugar

¼ teaspoon pepper

Sauté onion in butter in a Dutch oven. Add remaining ingredients; cover
and cook over medium heat 15 minutes or until the vegetables are tender.
Yield: about 8 servings.

**Grilled Vegetable Medley**

4 medium tomatoes, quartered 4 yellow squash, sliced and quartered

1 medium onion, thinly sliced 1 tablespoon chopped fresh basil, or

1 teaspoon salt ¾ teaspoon dried

¼ teaspoon ground pepper

Prepare a medium fire. Place vegetables on an 18" square of heavy-duty
aluminum foil. Season with basil, salt and pepper. Fold edges over to
create a secure package. Place package on grill 4-6" form coals. Grill,
turning once or twice, until vegetables are tender, about 25-30 minutes.

**Summer Vegetable Platter**

2 packages (10-oz. each) frozen asparagus 2 packages (10-oz. each)
frozen cauliflower

Spears 2 packages (10-oz. each) whole green beans

2 packages (10-oz. each) cut yellow wax 2 packages (9-oz. each) frozen
artichoke hearts

Beans 2 packages (10-oz. each) whole baby carrots

1 bottle (16-oz.) Italian-style oil and 3 hard-cooked eggs, chopped

Vinegar dressing

Cook vegetables according to package directions, cooking each type
separately. Drain and place in rows in a shallow dish. Pour salad
dressing over vegetables while warm. Cover and refrigerate for several
hours or until thoroughly chilled. When ready to serve, lift vegetables
from marinade with a slotted spoon and arrange in rows on a serving
platter. Garnish top with chopped eggs. Makes 12-14 servings.

**Ratatouille**

2 green bell peppers, coarsely chopped 4 large tomatoes, coarsely
chopped, or 2 cans

3-4 small zucchini cut into ¼" slices (14.5-oz. each) tomatoes

1 teaspoon dried leaf basil ½ teaspoon dried leaf oregano

¼ teaspoon dried leaf thyme 2 tablespoons chopped fresh parsley

2 tablespoons olive oil 2 cloves garlic, crushed and minced

1 large onion, quartered and thinly sliced 1 small eggplant, cubed

In a 4-quart Dutch oven or saucepan, heat olive oil over medium heat.
Add garlic and onions and cook, stirring often, until softened, about
6-7 minutes. Add eggplant; stir until coated with oil. Add peppers; stir
to combine. Cover and cook for 10 minutes, stirring occasionally to keep
vegetables from sticking.

Add tomatoes, zucchini, and herbs; mix well. Cover and cook over low
heat about 15 minutes, or until eggplant is tender but not too soft.
Makes 4 servings.

**Oven Roasted Vegetables**

Eggplant Zucchini

Red Onion Red Pepper

Olive Oil Balsamic Vinegar

1 teaspoon sage, optional Salt and pepper to taste

Cut vegetables into bite-sized pieces. Salt eggplant and let drain for
about 30 minutes; rinse well. Combine vegetables in baking pan. Drizzle
with approximately ¼ cup olive oil and 2-3 tablespoons balsamic vinegar.
Add sage and stir to combine. Bake at 450° stirring every 15 minutes.
Bake until desired doneness. If needed, add more oil, vinegar and sage
while cooking. Season to taste with salt and pepper.

**Oven-Roasted Vegetables**

Lou's Recipe

Any vegetable that is suitable for roasting; i.e.:

New Potatoes Onions

Carrots Squash, yellow

Zucchini Asparagus

Sweet Potatoes Brussel Sprouts

Olive oil Salt and pepper

Choose any of the above vegetables or other vegetables suitable for
roasting. Cut in pieces. Line a lipped cookie sheet with aluminum foil.
Place prepared vegetables on foil. Sprinkle enough olive oil over
vegetables to lightly cover them. Salt and pepper vegetables. Using
hands cover the veggies with oil, salt and pepper. DO NOT USE SO MUCH
OIL THAT IT STANDS IN FOIL. Bake at 350° oven for 20 minutes or until
vegetables are tender.

**Fettuccine with Vegetables**

1 jar (32-oz.) Ragu Chunky Garden style ¾ lb. broccoli, cut into florets

Spaghetti Sauce ¾ lb. fresh asparagus, or 1 package (10-oz.)

½ lb. fresh mushrooms, sliced frozen asparagus spears, cut into 2"
pieces

1 medium zucchini, sliced 4 medium scallions, cut into 2" pieces

1 large clove garlic, minced ¼ teaspoon marjoram

¼ teaspoon tarragon 3 tablespoons olive or vegetable oil

2 jars (4-oz. each) sliced pimientos, 1 package (12-oz.) fettuccine,
cooked and drained

Drained 2/3 cup grated Parmesan cheese

Pepper to taste

In a small saucepan, simmer spaghetti sauce 5 minutes; set aside and
keep warm. In a large skillet, cook broccoli, asparagus, mushrooms,
zucchini, scallions, garlic, marjoram and tarragon in hot oil until
vegetables are tender. Add pimientos and mix well. Spoon spaghetti sauce
over hot fettuccine. Place sautéed vegetables over sauce and sprinkle
with cheese and pepper. Toss to coat well. Serves 4.

**Rice with Chilies and Corn**

> Glenda Hansel

3 cups cooked rice 1 can Rotel tomatoes and chilies

1 regular size cream corn 2 small jars Kraft Old English cheddar cheese

2 teaspoons salt 2 medium bell peppers, chopped (or 1 large)

1 large onion, chopped 4 beaten eggs

4 tablespoons melted butter 1 teaspoon black pepper

Mix everything together and bake in 9x13" casserole dish sprayed with
vegetable spray. Bake 1 hour at 325°.

**Rice**

1 medium onion, minced 2 tablespoons butter

1 cup long-grain, raw white rice 2 cups chicken broth, hot

Sauté onion in butter until transparent. Combine onion, rice and hot
broth. Bring to a boil on top of range. Cover and place in 325° oven for
20 minutes. Serve and listen to the compliments.

**Green Bean Bundles**

> Betty Henry

 

LeSeur (I like this brand best) WHOLE green beans (4 cans make about 2
doz. bundles w/ 6 or 7 per bundle)

 

Cut bacon slices in ½ and microwave slices for about 2 minutes or until
half-way done. (This prevents the bacon from being uncooked after
bundles are cooked.)

Wrap ½ slice thin bacon around each.

 

Heat and stir until mixed well:

 

1 stick butter or margarine

1 cup brown sugar

1 teaspoon garlic salt

Pour over beans and cover.

Best if it marinates over-night

 

350 for 35 or 40 minutes.
