---
layout: recipe
title: "cheesecakes"
category: "Cakes"
---

# Cheesecakes

Cheesecake

Ginger Windham

2 (8-oz.) packages cream cheese ½ cup sugar

½ teaspon vanilla 2 eggs

6 oz. graham cracker crust

Preheat oven go 325°. Beat cream cheese, sugar, vanilla wth mixer. Add
eggs and beat just until blended. Pour into crust. Bake 40 minutes or
ntil center is almost set. Refrigerate.

Creamy Baked Cheesecake

1 ¼ cups graham cracker crumbs ¼ cup granulated sugar

1/3 cup butter, melted 1 (8-oz.) packages cream cheese, softened

1 (14-oz.) can Eagle Brand Sweetened 3 eggs

Condensed Milk, not evaporated ¼ cup ReaLemon Lemon Juice from

1 (8-oz.) container sour cream Concentrate

1 (21-oz.) can cherry pie filling, chilled

Preheat oven to 300º. Combine crumbs, sugar and butter; press on bottom
of 9\" springform pan. In mixer bowl, beat cheese until fluffy.
Gradually beat in sweetened condensed milk until smooth. Add eggs and
lemon juice; mix well. Pour into prepared pan. Bake 50-55 minutes or
until center is set; top with sour cream. Bake 5 minutes longer. Cool.
Chill. Top with pie filling. Refrigerate leftovers.

**Cream Cheese Cake**

> Sharon Hutson

> 

Duncan Hines Yellow Cake Mix (no butter) 2 eggs

1 stick butter, melted ¼ cup water

3 eggs 8 oz. Cream cheese, softened

1 box powdered sugar

Mix cake mix, 2 eggs, butter and water. Spread into greased and floured
9x13x2" pan. Mix 3 eggs, soft cream cheese and powdered sugar,
gradually. Pour over cake mixture. Bake at 325° for 40-45 minutes. When
cake is cool, sprinkle extra powdered sugar over top.

Pumpkin Swirl Cheesecake

2 cups vanilla wafer crumbs ¼ cup butter, melted

2 (8-oz.) packages Neufchatel (or cream) cheese ¾ cup sugar

1 teaspoon vanilla 3 eggs

1 cup canned pumpkin ¾ teaspoon cinnamon

¼ teaspoon nutmeg

Combine crumbs and butter; press onto bottom and sides of 9\" springform
pan.

Combine cheese, sugar and vanilla; mixing at medium speed on electric
mixer until well blended. Add eggs, one at a time, mixing well after
each addition. Reserve 1 cup cheese mixture; add pumpkin, remaining
sugar and spices and half of cheese mixture. Mix well. Layer half of
pumpkin mixture and half of cheese mixture over crust; repeat layers.
Cut through batter with knife several times for marble effect Bake at
350º for 55 minutes. Loosen cake from rim of pan; cool before removing
rim of pan. Chill. 10-12 servings.

Turtle Cheesecake

2 cups chocolate wafer crumbs ¼ cup granulated sugar

1/3 cup butter, melted 3 (8-oz.) packages cream cheese, softened

1 ¼ cups sugar 4 large eggs

1 (8-oz.) carton sour cream 1 tablespoon vanilla

¼ cup butter 1 cup (6-oz.) semisweet chocolate chips

1 (12-oz.) jar caramel topping 1 cup chopped pecans

Combine crumbs, sugar and butter; stir well. Firmly press mixture on
bottom and 1 inch up sides of a lightly greased 9\" springform pan. Bake
at 325º for 10 minutes. Cool in pan on a wire rack. Beat cream cheese at
medium speed of an electric mixer until creamy; gradually add 1-1/4 cups
sugar, beating well. Add eggs, one at a time, beating well after each
addition and scraping sides and bottom as needed. Stir in sour cream and
vanilla. Pour batter into prepared crust. Bake at 325º for 1 hour and 5
minutes. (Center will not be completely set.) Turn oven off; patically
open oven door. Leave cheesecake in oven 1 hour. Remove to a wire rack
to cool completely. Cover and chill at least 8 hours. Carefully remove
sides of pan; transfer cheesecake to serving plate.

Melt 1/4 cup butter in small heavy saucepan; add chocolate chips. Stir
over low heat just until chocolate melts and mixture blends. Spread warm
chocolate mixture over cheesecake; chill 15 minutes.

Combine caramel topping and pecans in a small saucepan. Bring to a boil,
stirring constantly, over medium heat; boil 2 minutes. Remove from heat,
and cool 5 minutes. Spread over chocolate; cool completely. Serve
immediately, or cover and chill.

Caramel Apple Cheesecake

1 can apple pie filling 1 graham cracker crush

2 (8-oz.) packages cream cheese ½ cup sugar

1 teaspoon vanilla ½ cup toasted peacans, chopped

2 eggs Caramel Sauce

Mix cream cheese, eggs, sugar and vanilla. Pour into crust and bake at
325° for 30 minutes. Pour apple pie filling on top of cheesecake.
Sprinkle pecans and drizzle caramel sauce on top of filling.

Lime Cheesecake

1 ¼ cups graham cracker crumbs 2 tablespoons sugar

¼ cu butter, melted 1 teaspoon grated lime rind

3 (8-oz.) packages cream cheese, ¾ cup sugar

Softened 3 eggs

1 tablespoon gratd lime rind ¼ cup Key lime juice

1 teaspoon vanilla extract 2 cups sour cream

3 tablespoons sugar Frest strawberries (optional)

Lime slices (optional)

Combine graham cracker crumbs, 2 tablespooons sugar, butter and 1
teaspoon grated lime rind in a medium bowl, stirring well. Press crumb
mixture evenly over bottom and up sides f a 9" springform pan. Bake at
350° for 5 to 6 minutes. Let cool

Beat cream cheese at high speed of an electric mixer until light and
fluffy; gradually add ¾ cup sugar, beating well. Add eggs, one at a
time, beating well after each addition. Stir in lime rind and vanilla.
Pour mixture into prepared pan. Bake at 375° for 45 minutes or until
set.

Combine sour cream and 3 tablespoons sugar; stir well and spreaad evenly
over cheesecake. Bake at 500° for 5 minutes. Let cool to room
temperature on a wire rack; chill at least 8 hours. To serve, carefully
remove sides of springform pan. If desired, garnish with strawberries
and lime slices.

Yield: one 9" cheesecake.

Daisy Brand Sour Cream Cheesecake

1 pre-made graham cracker crumb pie 2/3 cup plus 3 tablespoons sugar,
divided

Crust, baked 1 cup Daisy Brand Sour Cream

Dash of salt 3 eggs

16 ounces cream cheese 1 ½ teaspoons vanilla, divided

Filling: Beat eggs. Combine cream cheese, 2/3 cup sugar, salt and eggs
and ½ teaspoon vanilla. Beat at medium speed for 5 minutess. Pour over
crust. Bake at 350° for 25 minutes. Cool 30 minutes before adding the
sour cream topping.

Topping: Mix sour cream, 3 tablespoons sugar and 1 teaspoon vanilla.
Spread evenly. Bake 10 minutess at 350°. Cool to room temperature; then
place in fridge. Serve chilled. Serves 12.

Featherweight Cheesecake

1 cup graham cracker crumbs 3 tablespoons sugar

3 tablespoons butter, melted 2 (8-oz.) packages cream cheese, softened

½ cup sugar 1 tablespoons lemon juice

1 teaspoon grated lemon rind ½ teaspoon vanilla

2 eggs, separated 1 cup sour cream

2 tablespoons sugar 1 teaspoon vanilla

Combine crumbs, sugar and butter; press onto bottom of 9" springform
pan. Bake at 325° for 10 minutes.

Combine cream cheese, sugar, juice, rind and vanilla, mixing at medium
speed on electric mixer until well blended. Add egg yolks, one at a
time, mixing well after each addition. Fold in stiffly beaten egg
whites; pour over crust. Bake at 300° for 45 minutes.

Combine sour cream, sugar and vanilla. Carefully spread over cheesecake;
continue baking 10 minutes. Loosen cake from rim of plan; cool before
removing rim of pan. Chill. 10-12 servings.

Philly Fifteen Minute Cheesecake

1 cup graham cracker crumbs 3 tablespoons sugar

3 tablespoons buter, melted 3 (8-oz) packages cream cheese, softened

¾ cup sugar 3 eggs

1 cup mini semi-sweet chocolate 1 teaspoon vanilla

pieces

Combine crumbs, sugar and butter; press onto bottom of 9" springform
pan.

Combine cream cheese and sugar, mixing at mediium speed on electric
mixer until well blended. Add eggs, one at a time, mixing well after
each addition. Blend in chocolate pieces and vanilla; pour over crust.
Bake at 450°, 10 minutes. Reduce oven temperature to 250°; continue
baking 35 minutes. Loosen cake from rim of pan; cool before removing rim
of pan. Chill. 10-12 servings.

Variations: Top with 6-oz. Package almond brickle chips before baking.

Omit chocolate pieces. Top with 6-oz. Packae almond brickle chips before
baking.

Town House Cheese Cake

1 graham cracker crumb crust 1 (8-oz) cream cheese

1 teaspoon vanilla Juice and grated rind of 1 lemon

¾ cup sugar 4 eggs

Dash of salt ½ cup sour cream

½ cup powdered sugar 1 teaspoon vanilla

Bake graham cracker crust 5 minutes at 300° and cool.

Blend cream cheese, ¾ cup sugar, vanilla , lemon juice and lemon rind
wll. Add unbeated egg ylks and mix until smooth. Beat egg whites until
stiff and add to mixture. Pour into cool pie shell. Bake 45 minutes at
300°. Combine sour cream, powdered sugar and vanilla; whip and spread on
cooled pie. Chill.

Coconut Choco Cheesecake

1 cup graham cracker crumbs 3 tablespoons sugar

3 tablespoons butter, melted 2 (1-oz.) squares unsweetened chocolate

1 tablespoon butter 2 (8-oz.) packages cream cheese, softened

1 ¼ cups sugar ¼ teaspoon salt

5 eggs 1 1/3 cups (3 ½ oz. can) flaked coconut

1 ½ cups thawed whipped topping ½ cup sour cream

Combine crumbs, sugar and 3 tablespoons butter; press into bottome of 9"
springform pan. Bake at 350° for 10 minutes.

Melt chocolate with 1 tablespoon butter over low heat, stirring until
smooth. Cool. Combine cream cheese, sugar and salt, mixing at medium
speed on electric mixer until well blended. Add eggs, one at a time,
mixing well after each addition. Blend in chocolate mixture and coconut;
pour over crust. Bake at 350° for 55 minutes or until set. Loosen cake
from rim of pan; cool before removing rim of pan. Chill.

Fold whipped topping into sour cream; spred over cheesecake. Chill. 8-10
servings.
