Chocolate/Peanut Butter Cupcakes

Betty Crocker Brownie Mix

Prepare mix according to directions. Bale in cupcake tins lined with
cupcake papers. Cook for 28-32 minutes; check to make sure they don\'t
overcook. *Frost wth Peanut Butter Icing*.

Peanut Butter Icing:

1 box (16-oz.) confectioner\'s sugar ¾ cup peanut butter

6 oz. Cream cheese, softened ¼ cup milk

1 teaspoon vanilla

Blend cream cheese and peanut butter until smooth; stir on sugar and
blend well. Add milk until desired consistency. Stir in vanilla. Frost
cupcakes. Sprinkle cupcakes with chocolate chips and crushed peanuts.

Milk Chocolate Bar Cake

1 (18.25-oz) package Swiss chocolate cake mix 1 (8-oz.) package cream
cheese, softened

1 cup powdered sugar ½ cup granulated sugar

10 (1.5 -oz.) milk chocolate candy bars 1 (12-oz.) container frozen
whipped topping,

with almonds,divided thawed

Prepare cake batter according to package directions. Pour into 3 greased
and floured 8\" round cakepans. Baek at 325º for 20-25 minutes or until
a wooden pick inserted in center comes our clean. Cool in pans on wire
racks 10 minutes. Remove from pan, and cool completely on wire racks.
When cake layers are completely cool, frost each with frosting and stack
to make 3-layer cake

*Frosting*:

Beat cream cheese, powdered sugar, ad granulated sugar at medium speed
with an electric mixer until mixture is creamy. Chop 8 candy bars
finely. Fold cream cheese mixture and chopped candy into whipped
topping. Spread icing between layers and on top and sides of cake. Chop
remaining 2 candy bars. Sprinkle half of chopped candy bars over cake.
Press remaining chopped candy along bottom of cake.

Chocolate-Banana Graham Refrigerator \"Cake\"

1 package (3.9-oz.) Jell-O Chocolate Instant Pudding 1 cup cold milk

1 tub (8-oz.) Cool Whip topping, thawed & divided 1 banana, chopped

11 Honey Maid Honey Grahams, broken in half (22

squares), divided

Beat puddng mix and milk in medium bowl with whisk for 2 minutes. Stir
in 1 ½ cups Cool Whip and bananas. Spread 1 rounded tablespoonful
pudding mixture onto each of 20 graham squres. Stack grahams together,
then stand on edge of serving platter to make 8 ½ \" loaf. Frost with
remaining Cool Whip. Crush remaining graham squares; sprinkle over loaf.
Refrigerate 4 hours before slicingto sserve

Make ahead: Prepare dessert as directed. Freeze until firm; cover with
plastic wrap and store in freezer up to 2 weeks. Thaw in refrigerator 1
hour before serving.

Best-Ever Chocolate Cake

¾ cup buter, softened ¾ teaspoon baking powder

3 eggs ½ teaspoon salt

2 cups all-purpose flour 2 cups sugar

¾ 4 cup unsweetened cocoa powder 2 teaspoons vanilla

1 teaspoon baking powder 1 ½ cups milk

Allow butter and eggs to stand at room temperature for 30 minutes.
Lightly grease bottoms of three 8\" round cake pans. Line bottoms of
pans with wax paper. Grease and lightly flour waxed paper and sides of
pans. Set pans aside. Preheat oven to 350º. In a medium bowl, stir
together the flour, cocoa powder, baking soda, baking powder and salt.
Set aside

In a large mixing bowl, beat butter with an electric mixer on medium to
high speed for 30 seconds. Gradually add sugar, about 14 cup at a time,
beating on medium speed for 3-4 minutes or until well mixed. Scrape side
of bowl; continue beating on medium speed for 2 minutes. Add eggs, one
at a time, beating after each addition (about 1 minute total). Beat in
vanilla

Alternately add flour mixture and milk to beaten mixture, beating on low
speed just until combined after each addition. Beat on medium to high
speed for 20 seconds more. Spread evenly into prepared pans. Bake for
30-35 minutes, or until a wooden toothpick inserted in the centers comes
out clean. Cool cake layers in pans for 10 minutes. Remove from pans.
Peel off waxed paper. Cool completely on wire racks. Prepare Chocolate
Frosting; fill and frost cake layers. If desired, top with chocolate
curls and candied nuts. Store cake in refrigerator. Makes 12 -- 16
servings.

*Chocolate Frosting*:

In a large saucepan, combine one 12-oz. Package (2 cups) semisweet
chocolate pieces and ½ cup butter; heat over low heat until melted,
stirring oftern. Cool for 5 minutes. Stir in one 8-oz. Carton dairy sour
cram. Gradually add 4 ½ cups sifted powdered sugar (about 1 pound),
beating on medium speed until mixture is smooth.

Chocolate Chip Cake

Liz Craig

1 pudding in the mix butter cake (I like Pillsbury) ½ cup sugar

1 small box instant chocolatep pudding (I like ¾ cup water

chocolate fudge) ¾ cup oil

1 (8-oz.) sour cream 4 eggs

1 cup semi-sweet chocolate chips (I like Hershey\'s) Powdered sugar or

melted white chocolate, thinned slightly with vegetable oil

Whisk together the cake mix, granulated sugar and pudding to remove
lumps. Add water, oil, sour cream and eggs; blend well with whish. Then
stir in chocolate chips. Pour into a greased and floured bundt pan. Bake
at 350º for 1 hour. Cool cake for 15 minutes before removing from pan;
but it may take 1 hour to cool. When cooled, top with powdered sugar or
melted white chocolate.

****

Chocolate Layer Cake

2 ¼ cups all-purpose flour 1 teaspoon vanilla

1 ½ teaspoons baking soda 2 envelopes (2-oz.) Nestle Choco-Bake

1 teaspoon salt unsweetened chocolate flavor

½ cup butter, softened 2 eggs

1 ½ cups sugar 1 ½ cups ice water

Preheat oven to 350º. In small bowl, combine flour, baking soda and
salt; set aside. In large bowl, combine butter, sugar and vanilla; beat
until creamy. Blend in Nestle Choco-Bake. Add eggs, one at a time,
beating well after each addition. Alternately blend in flour mixture
with ice water. Poul into 2 greased and floured 8 or 9\" round cake
pans. Bake for 30-35 minutes. Cool 10 minutes; remove from pans. Cool
completely on wire racks. Fill and frost with chocolate cream frosting.

Chocolate Fudge Cake

Denise Jackson

Mix in a saucepan and bring to boil:

1 stick butter 4 tablespoons cocoa

½ cup crisco oil 1 cupwater

Mix:

2 cups sugar 2 cups flour

Blend well. Pour hot mixture over the dry ingredients.

Add the following mixture and mix well:

½ cup buttermilk\* 2 eggs

0.  teaspoon vanilla 1 teaspoon soda

For buttermilk: 1 ½ teaspoon vinegar can be added to ½ cup milk.

Pour into lightly greased 13x9 pan. Bakae at 400º for 20 minutes.

Make icing and have ready to pour over cake when it comes out of the
oven.

*Icing*:

1 stick butter 4 tablespoons cocoa

6 tablespoons milk

Melt in saucepan above ingredients and bring to a boil right before cake
is done. Add 1 box confectioner\'s sugar and 1 teaspoon vanilla. Mix
well and pour over hot cake.

****

Chocolate Sheet Cake

Sarah Tyus

(This is a similar version of the preceeding cake -- Chocolate Fudge
Cake. Both are very good, but I prefer this one with pecans.)

Put in saucepan and bring to boil:

1 stick butter

½ cup cooking oil

4 tablespoons cocoa

1 cup water

Sift together:

2 cups flour

2 cups sugar

Pour chocolate sauce over dry ingredienets and mix well (stir). Then
stir in:

½ cup buttermilk

2 eggs

1 teaspoon soda

1 teaspoon vanilla

Pour into greased large jelly roll pan (or cookie sheet -- with sides).
Bake 20 minutes at 400º. Frost with Sheet Cake Frosting while hot in the
pan. Cool. Then cut into squares.

*Sheet Cake Frosting*:

Put in saucepan and bring to boil:

1 stick butter 4 tablespoons cocoa

1/3 cup buttermilk

Remove from heat after it comes to a boil and add:

1 (1-lb.) confectioner\'s sugar ½ teaspoon salt

1 teaspoon vanilla 1 cup chopped pecans

Frost cake while hot Makes 30 large squares.

Fudge Poundcake

1 ¾ cups all-purpose flour 2 teaspoons baking powder

1 teaspoon salt 2 (3-oz.) packages cream cheese, softened

1/2 cup butter, softened 1 ½ cups granulated sugar

2 teaspoons vanilla 2 eggs

4 envelopes (4-oz.) Nestle Choco-Bake ¾ cup milk

Confectioner\'s sugar (optional)

Preheatoven to 350º. In small bowl, combine flour, baking powder and
salt; set aside. In large bowl, combine cream cheese, butter, sugar and
vanilla; beat until creamy. Add eggs, one at a time, beating well after
each addition. Add well blended. Pour into greased and floured 9\" tube
pan. Bake at 350º for1 hour. Cool 15 minutes; remove from pann. Cool
completely. Sprinkle with confectioner\'s sugar, if desired.

****

Chocolate Praline Layer Cake

½ cup butter ¼ cup whipping cream

1 cup firmly packed brown sugar ¾ cup coarsely chopped pecans

1 (18.5-oz.) Devil\'s food cake mix 1 ¼ cups water

1/3 cup oil 3 eggs

Topping:

1 ¾ cups whipping cream ¼ cup powdered sugar

¼ teaspoon vanilla 16 whole pecans, if desired

6 chocolate curls, if desired

Heat oven to 325º. In small heavy saucepan, combine butter, 1/4
cupwhipping cream and brown sugar. Cook over low heat just until butter
is melted, stirring occasionally. Pour into two 8 or 9\" round cake
pans; sprinkle evenly with chopped pecans. In large bowl, combine cake
mix, water, oil and eggs; beat at low speed until moistened. Beat 2
minutes at medium speed. Carefully spoon batter over pecan mixture. Bake
at 325º for 35-45 minutes or until cake springs back when touched
lightly in center. Cool 5 minutes; remove from pans. Cool 1 hor or until
completely cooled. In small bowl, beat 1-3/4 cups whipping cream until
soft peaks form. Add powdered sugar and vanilla; beat until stiff peaks
form. To assemble cake, place1 layer on serving plate, praline side up.
Spread with halp of whipped cream. Top with second layer, praline side
up; spread top with remaining whipped cream. Garnish with whole pecans
and chocolate curls. Store in refrigerator.

Original German Sweet Chocolate Cake

1 package (4-oz.) Baker\'s German\'s Sweet ½ cup boiling water

1 cup (2 sticks) butter 2 cups sugar

4 eggs, separated 1 teaspoon vanilla

2 cups all-purpose flour 1 teaspoon baking soda

½ teaspoon salt 1 cup buttermilk

Coconut-Pecan Frosting

Melt chocolate in boiling water; cool. Cream butter and sugar. Beat in
egg yolks. Stir in vanilla and chocolate. Set aside. Mix flour, soda and
salt. Beat in flour mixture, alternately with buttermilk. Beat egg
whites until stiff peaks form; fold into batter. Pour batter into 3-9\"
layer pans, greased and lined on bottom with waxed paper. Bake at 350º
for 30 minutes or until cake springs back when lightly pressed in
center. Cool 15 minutes; remove and cool on rack. Spread frosting
between layers and on top of cake.

Coconut-Pecan Frosting:

1 cup evaporated milk 1 cup granulated sugar

3 slightly beaten egg yolks ½ cup butter

1 teaspoon vanilla

Combine ingredients; stir and cook over mediium heat until thickened.
Remove from heat. Stir in 1-1/3cups (3 ½ oz.) Baker\'s Angel Flake
Coconut and 1 cup pecans. Cool until thick enough to spread over cake
layers. Makes 1 ½ cups.

****

German Chocolate Cake

Southern Living

1 (18.5-oz.) package German chocolate cake 3 large eggs

mix\* 1 (8-oz.) container sour cream\*\*

1/3 cup vegetabe oil Coconut-Pecan Frosting

Beat German chocolate cake mix, eggs, sour cream ad oil at low speed
with an electric mixer 30 seconds or just until moistened; beat at
medium speed 2 minutes. Pour batter evenly into a greased and floured
13x9\" baking pan or 2- 8 or 9\" round pans. Bake at 350º for 32-35
minutes or until a wooden pick inserted in center comes our clean. Cool
cake completely in pan on a wire rack

Spread Coconut-Pecan Filling evenly on top cake (or top and sides of
round cake layers).

\*So. Living used Betty Crocker Super Moist German Chocolate Cake Mix.
You may substitute light sour cream in this recipe, but don\'t use
nonfat sour cream.

Coconut-Pecan Filling

1 cup sugar 1 cup whipping cream

3 egg yolks ½ cup butter

1 teaspoon vanilla 1 ½ cups sweetened flaked coconut

1 cup chopped pecans, toasted

Combine sugar, whipping cream, egg yolks and butter; cook over medium
heat, stirring constantly, 8-10 minutes or until thickened. Remove from
heat, and stir in vanilla Stir in coconut and pecans, and let cool
completely.

German Chocolate Cake

Cynde Hassell

1 box yellow cake mix 1 box vanilla pudding mix (not instant)

1 cup milk ¾ cup oil

2 eggs 1 bar of German chocolate, grated

Mix cake mix, pudding, milk, oil and eggs. Beat 4 minutes. Add German
chocolate. Bake at 350º in greased and floured bundt pan for 50 minutes.
Then reduce heat to 300º and bake 10 more minutes. Remove from oven; let
cool at least 10 minutes. Remove and continue to cool on wire rack.

****

Mocha Cake Recipe

Recipe from *The Blue Moon Inn Cookbook* by Cecil L. McMillan

To begin, you can either make your own angel food cake in loaf pans or
purchase the cake. With hands, peel off brown crust, and cut cake 5
times lengthwise and 10 times across with a very sharp knife. With metal
spatula, generously cover cakes on top and all four sides wth mocha
icing. Roll in toasted, chopped or coarsely ground peanuts. The cake is
much better if you toast large shelled peanuts. Remove husks by rubbine
together, and grind just before using. Refrigerate cakes in hot weather.
The cakes are also good rolled in toasted almonds.

*For the icing*:

1 (1-lb) box 10x confectioner\'s sugar 2 sticks butter, softened

1 tablespoon instant coffee 1 tablespoon cool water

Dissolve coffee in water. Cream butter until light and fluffy. Add sugar
in small amoounts while beating well after each addition. When half of
the sugar has been added, mix in small amounts ofthe coffee alternatng
with the remaining sugar. Continue beating until light and fluffy.

Mississippi Mud Cake

1 cup chopped pecans 1 cup butter

1 (4-oz.) semisweet chocolate baking bar, 2 cups sugar

chopped 1 ½ cups all-purpose flour

½ cup unsweetened cocoa 4 large eggs

1 teaspoon vanilla ¾ teaspoon salt

1 (10.5-oz.) bag minature marshmallows Chocolate Frosting

Place pecans in a single layer on a baking dish. Bake at 350º for 8-10
minutes or until toasted. Microwave 1 cup butter and semisweet chocolate
in a large micrwave-safe glass bowl at HIGH 1 minute or until melted and
smooth, stirring every 30 seconds. Whisk sugar, cocoa, flour, vanilla,
eggs and salt into chocolate mixture. Pour batter into a greased 15x10x1
jelly-roll pan. Bake at 350º for 20 minutes. Remove from oven, and
sprinkle evenly with minature marshmallows; bake 8-10 more minutes or
until golden brown. Drizzle warm cake with Chocolate Frosting (recipe
follows), and sprinkle evenly with toasted pecans.

*Chocolate Frosting*:

½ cup butter 1/3 cup unsweetened cocoa

1/3 cup milk 1 (16-oz.) package powdered sugar

1 teaspoon vanilla

Stir together butter, cocoa and milk in medium saucepan over medium heat
until butter is melted. Cook, stirrng constantly, 2 minutes or until
slighly thickened; remove from heat. Beat in powdered sugar and vanilla
at mediium-high speed with an electric mixer until smooth.

Self-Frosted Fudge Cake

½ cup plus 2 tablespoons butter, softened 1 ¼ cups all-purpose flour

¾ cup sugar 2 ½ teaspoons bakiing powder

½ teaspoon salt 2/3 cup milk

2 (1-oz.) envelopes premelted unsweetened 2 eggs

chocolate ½ cup pecan halves

1 package Pillsbury Chocolate Fudge Sauce 34 cup plus 2 tablespoons warm
water

Mix

Melt 2 tablespoons butter in 9 or 10\" ovenproof skillet. Set aside.
Measure all ingredients except pecans, sauce mix and water into large
mixer bowl. Bend well at low speed; beat 2 minutes at medium speed. Pour
into skillet. Sprinkle with pecans. Combine water and dry sauce mi;
spoon over batter. Bake at 350º for 40-45 minutes. Cool 1-2 minutes.
Invert onto serving place. Serve warm with ice cream or whipped cream.

Tips: To protect handle of skillet, cover with foil. May be baked in 9\"
square pan at 350º for 35-40 minutes. Substitute ¾ cup chocolate syrup
for the Chocolate Fudge Sauce Mix. Increase water to ½ cup.

Sour Cream Chocolate Cake

2 cups flour 2 cups sugar

1 cup water ¾ cup dairy sour cream

¼ cup butter 1 ¼ teaspoon baking soda

1 teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon vanilla

½ teaspoon baking powder 2 eggs

4 oz. melted unsweetened chocolate

Cream butter and sugar; add eggs and mix well. Combine dry ingredients;
add to cream mixture and add remainder of ingredients. Mix well. Bake at
350º for 40-45 minutes in 9x13\" pan. Cool cake and cover wth Sour Cream
Chocolate Frosting.

*Sour Cream Chocolate Frosting*:

1/3 cup butter 3-oz. Melted unsweetened chocolate

3 cups confectioner\'s sugar, sifted ½ cup dairy sour cream

2 teaspoons vanilla

Melt butter; add chocolate. Combine remainder of ingredients. If
necessary use electric mixer to make smooth frosting.

World\'s Best Chocolate Cake

½ cup unsalted butter 4 -oz. unsweetened chocolate, broken-up

2 ½ cups all-purpose flour 2 ¼ cups sugar

1 cup unsweetened cocoa, powder 2 teaspoons baking soda

½ teaspoon baking powder 1 ½ teaspoon salt

1 ½ cups sour cream 3 eggs

2 teaspoons vanilla

Heat oven to 350º. Grease and flour three 9\" round cake pans. In
microwave-safe glass bowl, melt butter and chocolate together in
microwave on HIGH until melted and smooth, 1 to 1 ½ minutes, stirring
halfway through. Set aside. Mix flour, sugar, cocoa, baking powder,
baking soda and salt in a large bowl until blended. Add sour cream,
eggs, 1 cup water, chocolate mixture and vanilla; beat 30 seconds on low
speed, until dry ingredienets are moistened. Increase to mediium; beat 2
minutes. Pour into prepared pans. Bake for 40 minutesor until cake
layers spring back when pressed. Cool layers in pans on rack 10 minutes.
Remove cakes to rack to cool. Ice cake with frosting.

*Frosting*:

4-oz. Unsweetened chocolate, broken up ½ cup shortening

½ cup unsalted butter, softened ¼ cup sour cream

1/3 cup milk 2 teaspoons vanilla

¼ teaspoon salt 1 box powdered sugar, sifted

½ cup unsweetened cocoa powder Chocolate curls, berries (optional)

In a microwave-safe small glass bowl, melt chocolate in microwave on
HIGH for 1 minute. Stir until smooth. Set aside. Beat shortening,
butter, sour cream, mik, vanilla, salt, 1 cup of the sugar and the cocoa
powder in a medium-size bowl until creamy. Gradually beat in remaining
sugar and melted chocolate until thick and smooth. Place a cake layer on
pedestal. Spread with about 2/3 cup frosting. Top with second layer;
spread about 2/3 cup more frosting. Top with remaining layer. Frost top
and sides, swirling decoratively. Garnish with chocolate culrs and
berries, if desired. Makes 12 servings.

Hot Fudge Sundae Cake

1 cup all-purpose flour ¾ cup granulated sugar

2 tablespoons cocoa 2 teaspoons baking powder

¼ teaspoon salt ½ cup milk

2 tablespoons salad oil 1 teaspoon vanilla

1 cup chopped nuts, if desired 1 cup brown sugar, packed

¼ cup cocoa 1 ¾ cups hottest tap water

Favorite ice cream

Heat oven to 350°. In ungreased square pan, 9x9x2", stir together flour,
sugar, 2 tablespoons cocoa, baking powder and salt. Mix in milk, ooil
and vanilla with fork until smooth. Stir in nuts. Spread even evenly in
pan. Sprinkle with brown sugaqr and ¼ cup cocoa. Pour hot water over
batter. Bake 40 minutes. Let stand 15 minutes; spoon into dessert dishes
or cut into squares. Invert each square onto dessert plate. Top wiht ice
cream and spoon sauce over each serving. 9 servings.

Texas Cake

2 sticks butter 3 tablespoons cocoa

2 cups sugar 1 teaspoon vanilla

1 cup water 2 cups self-rising flour

1 egg, well-beaten ½ cup sour cream

Mix butter, water and cocoa. Bring to boil and mix flour and sugar. Mix
well; add egg, vanilla and sour cram. Pour into poan and bake 20 minutes
at 350°. Spread with icing while cake is still hot. (I make my icing
while cake is baking so it will be ready to spread.)

Icing:

1 stick butter 3 tablespoons cocoa

6 tablespoons milk 1 teaspoon vanilla

½ cup chopped pecans 1 box confectioners' sugar

Bring butter, milk and cocoa to boil. Remove from heat and add pecans,
vanilla and confectioners' sugar. Pour on cake while hot.

Buttermilk Chocolate Cake

2 cups all-purpose flour 2 cups sugar

1 teaspoon baking soda 1 cup water

½ cup butter ¼ cup cocoa

2 eggs ½ cup buttermilk

Velvety Chocolate Frosting

Combine flour, sugar and soda in a large mixing bowl. Combine water,
butter and cocoa in a small saucepan; cook over low heat until mixure
comes to a boil. Remove from heat and pour over dry ingredients, mixing
thoroughly. Add eggs and buttermilk; beat well. Spoon batter into a
well-greased 13x9x2" baking pan. Bake at 350° for 30 minutes or until a
wooden pick inserted into center comes out clean. Cool on pan. Frost
with *Velvety Chocolate Frosting*.

*Velvety Chocolate Frosting*:

½ cup butter ¼ cup plus 2 tablespoons milk

¼ cup cocoa 1 16-oz.) package powdered sugar, sifted

Combine butter, milk and cocoa in a saucepan; bring to a boil. Remove
from heat; add powdered sugar, stirring well. Yield: enough for a 2
layer cake.
