---
layout: recipe
title: "coconut cakes"
category: "Cakes"
---

# Coconut Cakes

Terrific Triple Coconut Cake

By: Three Many Cooks

2 cans (14-oz. each) regular coconut milk

*For cake*:

2 cups all-purpose flour 3 tablespoons cornstarch

3 ¼ teaspoons baking powder ½ teaspoon salt

12 tablespoons (1 ½ sticks) butter, softened 1 ½ cups granulated sugar

3 large eggs ½ teaspoon vanilla

1 cup reduced coconut milk (see instructions)

*For frosting*:

3 cups sweetened flaked cocount 2 sticks butter, softened

4 cups (about 1 pound) confectioner\'s sugar ¼ cup reduced coconut milk,
see instructions

1 ½ teaspoons vanilla Pinch of salt

Do ahead: Bring coconut milk to boil in a medium saucepan over
medium-high heat. Reduce heat to medium and cook, whiskng often, until
reduced to 1 ½ cups. Be careful not to reduce beyond

1 ½ cups or the solids will start to separate from the fat. Cool to room
temperature; it can be stored in the refrigerator several days.

For the cake: Adjust oven rack to middle position and heat the oven to
350º. Grease and flour two 8\" cake pans. Mix flour, cornstarch, baking
powder and salt in a medium bowl. With an electric mixer, beat butter in
large bowl until fluffy. Add sugar; beat until well mixed. Beat in eggs,
one at a time, and then vanilla, scraping down sides of bowl as needed.
Beat in half of the flour mixture, then the reduced milk and finally the
remaining flour mixture, scraping down the bowl again, until just
smooth. Divide batter evenly between prepared pans; bake until golden
brown and a toothpick inserted into cake center comes out clean, 30-35
minutes. Transfer to a wire rack; let cool 5 minutes. Remove cakes from
pans; return to rack to cool completely.

For the frosting: Reduce oven to 325º. Spread coconut on a 13x9\" baking
sheet; toast, stirring occasionally, until flakes are dry and some are
light golden, about 20 minutes. Don\'t overbake. With an electric mixer,
beat butter in a bowl until smooth. Slowly beat in sugar until combined.
Beat in coconut milk,vanilla and salt until smooth.

To assemble: Place a cake layer (top-side down) on a cake stand lined
with strips of parchment paper (to keep it clean while icing). Using a
knife or offset spatula, spread about 1/3 of the frosting over cake top;
sprinkle generously with coconut. Place the next layer (top-side up)
over the first. Spread remaining frosting evenly on cake top and sides.
Sprinkle top generously with coconut. Using an opened, gently press
remaining coconut around cake perimeter. Remove parchment strips;
refrigerate cake until frosting sets, about 30 minutes. Slice and serve.
16 servings; 600 calories per serving.

****

Classic Angel Flake Coconut Cake

1 package (2-layer size) yellow cake mix 1 package (7-oz.) Baker\'s
Angel Flake Coconut,

1 cup cold milk divided

1 package (4-serving size) Jell-O Vanilla ¼ cup powdered sugar

Flavor Instant Pudding & Pie Filling 1 tub (8-oz.) Cool Whip topping,
thawed

Prepare cake batter as directed on package; stir in 2/3 cup of the
coconut. Pour evenly into 2-9\" round cake pans Bake as directed on
package. Cool in pans 10 minutes; remove to wire rack. Cool cakes
completely.

Pour milk into medium bowl. Add dry pudding mix and sugar. Beat with
wire whisk 2 minutes or until well blended. (Mixture will be thick.)
Gently stir in whipped topping. Refrigerate 15 minutes. Place one cake
layer on serving plate; spread top with 1 cup of the pudding mixture.
Sprinkle with 3/4 cup of the remaining coconut; cover with second care
layer. Spread top ad side with remaining pudding mixture; press
remaining coconut into pudding mixture. Refrigerate at least 1 hour.
Store leftovers in refrigerator.

Coconut Cake

Pat Hill

1 package Duncan Hines Moist Deluxe Butter Recipe Cake Mix

Prepare cake according to package directions. Frost cool cake with
Coconut Cake Frosting.

Coconut Frosting:

1 tablespoon (heaping) solid Crisco 1 teaspoon coconut flavoring

½ cup milk (heated) 1 ½ lbs. Confectioner\'s sugar, sifted.

Beat Crisco until smooth. Gradually add sugar to Crisco mixture.
Alternate milk and sugar until all is used. Add flavoring, mix. Frost
cake layers; sprinkle remainder of coconut to frosting.

Coconut Cake

Martha John Allison

Duncan Hines White Cake Mix

1 can coconut milk 1 can Eagle brand milk

1 Cool Whip Flaked coconut

Bake cake according to directions. As soon as cake is taken out of oven
while hot, poke holes with a meat fork over the top of cake. Pour a
mixture of 1 can coconut milk and 1 can Eagle brand milk over cake. When
cool (this takes a while), cover with Cool Whip and then flaked coconut.
Keeps in refrigerator up to 2 weeks.

****

Homemade Coconut Cake

2 eggs 1 ½ cups sugar

2 ¼ cups flour 1 ½ sticks butter, softened

1 cup milk 1 tablespooon vanilla

1 teaspoon baking powder 1 medium fresh coconut

Combine eggs, sugar, flour, butter, milk, vanilla and baking powder. Mix
well. Pour batter into 2 greased and floured 9\" cake pans and bake at
350º for 25-30 minutes. Remove from pans and cool.

Drain milk from coconut and reserve. Grate coconut and set aside. Divide
reserved milk in half; sprinkle over two cooled cake layers. Spread
frosting over top of one layer; sprinkle with coconut. Place second
layer over first; spread frosting over top and sides of cake. Sprinkle
grated coconut generously over top of cake and press into sides.

*Seven Minute Frosting*:

2 egg whites 1 ½ cups sugar

Dash of salt ½ cup cold water

1 teaspoon vanilla 1 teaspoon cream of tartar

To prepare frosting, combine all ingredients in top of double boiler.
Cook over boiling water, beating with electric mixer, until mixture
forms soft peaks, 5-7 minutes. Remove from heat and continue beating
until thick.

****
