---
layout: recipe
title: "fruit cakes"
category: "Cakes"
---

# Fruit Cakes

Apple Cake

3 cups flour 2 cups sugar

1 cup vegetable oil 1 teaspoon baking soda

1 teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon vanilla

2 eggs 2 cups apples, cut up

1 cup pecans, chopped

Combine sugar and oil; mix well; add eggs and mix well. Combine dry
ingredients. Add small amount of the flour to pecans and apples (this
keeps these from settling to bottom of cake.) Add remainder of
ingredients to wet mixture. Bake at 350º in greased and floured bundt
pan for 40 minutes or until when tessted for doneness wooden skewer
comes clean.

Applesauce Cake #1

½ cup butter 1 cup sugar

1 cup cold,unsweetened applesauce 1 teaspoon baking soda

1 cup raisins 1 cup pecans (or other nuts), cut up

2 teaspoon cinnamon ½ teaspoon cloves

2 cups flour 2 eggs

Cream butter; add sugar gradually. Add soda to applesauce and add to
butter/sugar combination. Add eggs; mix well. Add small amount of the
flour to raisins and pecans, so they will not settle to bottom of cake.
Add remainder of ingredients. Bake in greased and floured pan in
moderate oven, 325º-350º, for 40-45 minutes.

Applesauce Cake #2

Recipe by Eve Faulk of Montgomery

2 ½ cups four 2 cups sugar

1 ½ teaspoons baking soda 1 ½ teaspooons salt

¾ teaspoon cinnamon ½ teaspoon cloves

½ teaspoon allspice ½ teaspoon baking powder

1 ½ cups unsweetened applesauce ½ cup water

1 stick butter 2 eggs

1 cup raisins ½ cup walnuts, chopped

Put small part of flour in bowl with raisins and walnuts and coat them
(this keeps them from settlng to bottom of cake.) In a large mixing
bowl, combine all ingredients. Beat on low speed for 30 seconds,
scraping bowl constantly. Then beat on high speed for 3 minutes,
scraping bowl occasionally. Pour intogreased and floured 13\"x9\" pan or
two loaf pans. Bake at 350º for 60-65 minutes. Cool before serving.

**Applesause Cake #3**

****Mama Franklin

1 cup butter 1 cup sugar

1egg 1 cup applesauce, unsweetened

1 cup raisins ½ cup pecans (or other nuts), chopped

1 teaspoon soda mixed in 1 teaspoon water 2 cups flour

1 teaspoon cinnamon 1 teaspoon cloves

1 teaspoon nutmeg

Cream butter and sugar; add eggs and mix well. Combine dry ingredients..
Keep part of flour out to roll pecans and raisinsin before mixing into
batter. Add remainder ingredientsto butter and sugar mixture. Bake at
350º for 40-45 minutes.

Old-Fashioned Applesauce Spice Cake

1 package Duncan Hines Signature Spice 3 large eggs

Cake Mix 1 (21-oz.) can of Comstock More Fruit Apples

1/3 cup vegetable oil ¾ cup water

1 cup chopped nuts Cream Cheese Frosting

Preheat oven to 350°. Grease and flour either 2-8" or 2-9" or a 13x9"
pan. Chop the apple filling into small pieces. Combine cake mix, water,
eggs and oil in large bowl. Beat at medium speed with electric mixer for
2 minutes. Stir in chopped apples and nuts. Pour into bake pan(s). Bake
for 40 minutes in 13x9" pan or 25-35 minutes for round cake pans (check
for doneness by inserting toothpick into center and it comes out clean).
Cool in pan 15 mintues. Invert only cooling rack. Turn right-side-up.
Cool completely. Frost with icing.

*Cream Cheese Frosting*:

1 (8-oz) cream cheese, softened ½ stick butter, softened

1 box (1 lb) confectioners sugar 2 teaspoon vanilla

1 teaspoon cinnamon

Beat cream cheese and butter at medium speed wth an electric mixer until
creamy. Gradually add sugar and cinnamon beating until blended. Stir in
vnilla. Yield: 1-2/3 cups.

Apple Slice Cake

3 cups all-purpose flour 1 tablespoon cinnamon

1 teaspoon baking soda 1 teaspoon salt

2 cups sugar 1 ½ cups vegetable oil

3 eggs 1 teaspoon vanilla

3-4 Granny Smith apples, cored & cut in 1 cup pecans, chopped

1/2\" pieces Caramel Sauce

Stir flour, cinnamon, baking soda and salt together. Beat sugar, oil,
eggs and vanilla until smooth. Add dry ingredients gradually, beating
constantly. Fold in apples and pecans. Put in greased and floured bundt
pan. Bake at 350º for 1 ¼ to 1 ½ hours until test is done. Cool slightly
in pan on wire rack. Remove to wire rack and cool completely. Drizzle
with *Caramel Sauce* right before serving.

Caramel Sauce:

1 cup light brown sugar ½ cup unsalted butter

¼ cup evaporated milk 1 teaspoon vanilla

Dash salt

Combne sugar, butter, evaporated milk, vanilla and salt in saucepan on
medium heat. Cook until thickened; stirring constantly. Do not burn.

Moist Caramel Apple Cake

1 package (2 layer) yellow cake mix 1 package (4 serving size) Jello
Vanilla or

1 cup water French Vanilla Flavor Instant Pudding &

4 eggs Pie Filling

1/3 cup oil 3 medium Granny Smith apples, peeled

20 Kraft caramels, unwrapped and coarsely chopped

3 tablespoons milk

Preheat oven to 350º. Grease and flour bundt pan or tube pan. Beat cake
mix, dry pudding mix, water, eggs and oil in large bowl with electric
mixer on low spped until blended. Beat on high speed 2 minutes. Gently
stir n apples. Pour into prepared pan. Bake 50 minutes to 1 hour or
until toothpick inserted in center comes out clean. Cool 20 minutes;
remove from pan. Cool completely on wire rack. Microwave caramels and
milk in microwaveable bowl on High 1 ½ minutes, stirring every 30
seconds until blended. Cool 10 minutes until slightly thickened. Drizzle
over cake.

**Chunky Apple Cake with Cream Cheese Frostng**

½ cup butter, melted 2 cups sugar

2 large eggs 1 teaspoon vanilla

2 cups all-purpose flour 1 teaspoon baking soda

1 teaspoon salt 2 teaspoons cinnamon

4 Granny Smith apples, peeled and sliced 1 cup chopped walnuts, toasted

Cream Cheese Frosting Chopped Walnuts, toasted (optional)

Stir together butter, sugar, eggs and vanilla in a large bowl until
blended. Combine four and next 3 ingredients; add to butter mixture,
stirring until blended. Stir in apple slices and walnuts. Spread into a
greased 13x9\" pan. Bake at 350º for 45 minutes until a wooden pic
inserted in center comes out clean. Cool completely in pan on wire rack.
Spread with Cream Cheese Frostng; sprnkle with walnuts, if desired.
Store in refrigerator. Yield 12-15 servings.

Cream Cheese Frosting:

1 (8 oz) package cream cheese, softened 3 tablespoons butter, softened

1 ½ cups powdered sugar 1/8 teaspoon salt

1 teaspoon vanilla

Beat creamcheese and butter at medium speed wth an electric mixer until
creamy. Gradually add sugar and salt, beating until blended. Stir in
vanilla. Yield: 1-2/3 cups.

Honey-Apple Cake

1 cup pecans, chopped and divided 2 cups sugar

1 cup vegetable oil ¼ cup honey

3 eggs 3 cups all-purpose flour

1 teaspoon baking soda 1 teaspoon salt

¼ teaspoon nutmeg 1 teaspoon vanilla

3 cups Golden Delicious Apples, cored and Honey Sauce

chopped Vanilla Ice Cream, optional

Grease and flor 12-cup bundt pan; spread bottom of pan with 1/4 cup
pecans. Set aside. Beat sugar,oil and honey at medium speed until well
blended. Add eggs one at a time; beating until blended. Combine flour,
soda, salt and nutmeg. Gradually add to sugar mixture, beating at low
speed until blended. Stir invanillla and remaining pecans and apple.
Spoon over pecans in bundt pan. Bake at 350º for 55-60 minutes. Cool in
pan 15 minutes. Serve with Honey Sauce and Vanilla Ice Cream.

Honey Sauce:

1 cup firmly packed brown sugar ½ cup butter

¼ cup honey ¼ cup milk

Bring all ingredients to a boil in medium saucepan over medium-high
heat,stirring constantly; boil stirring constantly for 2 mionutes. Makes
1-1/2 cupsauce.

Blueberry Crunch Cake

20-oz can unsweetened crushed pineapple 4-5 cups frozen blueberries

1 box white or yellow cake mix 1 cup pecans, chopped

1 ½ sticks butter, melted

Preheat oven to 350º. Pour pineapple in botto of a 9x13 pan. Layer
thawed blueberries over pineapple, and sprinkle dry cake mix on top of
blueberries. Pour melted butter evenly over cake mix Sprinkle nuts on
top. Bake 30-35 minutes or until top is lightly browned.

Blueberry Cake

2 sticks butter, softened 2 cups sugar

4 eggs 3 cups flour

½ teaspoon baking soda ½ teaspoon salt

1 cup buttermilk 3 tablespoons lemon zest

1 cup blueberries

Cream butter and sugar; add eggs and beat one at a time. Sift flour,
soda and salt. Add dry ingredients a little at a time, alternating with
buttermilk. Add lemon zest. Fold in blueberries. Bake at 325° for 1 hour
and 15 minutes. After removing from pan while cake is still hot, glaze
with *Icing.*

*Icing:*

1 cup powdered sugar 2-3 tablespoons lemon juice

Combine sugar and enough lemon juice to make glaze. Spread over hot
cake.

Carrot Cake #1

2 cups sugar 4 eggs

1 ½ cup vegetable oil (canola) 2 tablespoons cinnnamon

2 cups flour (sifted) 3 cups carrots, grated

½ cup pecans, optional Cream Cheese Frosting

Mix well sugar ,oil and eggs; add dry ingredients and mix well. Add
carrots and pecans. Bake in greased and floured 9x12 shallow pan or
individual round cake pans (3-4). Bake at 350º for 30 miinutes to 1 hour
-- depending on size of pan. Check with toothpick for doneness. When
cake is cool, top with *Cream Cheese Frosting.*

*Cream Cheese Frosting*:

1 (8-oz) cream cheese, softened ½ stick butter, softened

1 box (1 lb) confectioners sugar 1 cup pecans, chopped

2 teaspoon vanilla

Mix cream cheese and butter; add remainder ingredients until creamy and
smooth. Frost cool cake.

Carrot Cake #2

Pat Hill

2 cups all-purpose flour (sifted) 2 teaspoons baking powder

1 teaspoon salt 2 cups sugar

1 teaspoon soda 2 teaspoons cinnamon

1 ¼ cups crisco vegetable oil 4 eggs

3 cups carrots, finely grated Cream Cheese Frosting

Mix all dry ingredients; add oil and stir with spoon. Add eggs, one at a
time and stirring after egg. Add carrots; stir well. Bake in 2 round
cake pans, greased and floured and bottoms covered with wax paper. Bake
at 350º for 35-40 minutes. Cool and frost with *Cream Cheese Frosting*.

Cream Cheese Frosting:

8-oz. Cream cheese, softened ½ stick butter, softened

1 box confectioners sugar (add more) Milk, if needed

1 teaspoon vanilla 1 cup pecans, chopped

Mix cream cheese and butter; blend well. Add confectioners sugar. If too
thick, add few drops milk. Add 1 teaspoon vanilla and pecans. Frost cool
cake.

Cherry Glaze Cake

Jane McCall

1 cup butter 1 ½ cups sugar

4 eggs 1 teaspoon almond flavoring

2 cups flour (do not sift) 1 cup cherry pie filling

Cream butter and sugar; add eggs one at a time; beating well after each
egg. Add flavoring and flour. Spread with tip of knife in 10x15x1\"
greased pan. Mark off 15 squares. Spoon filling into well in each
square. Bake at 350º for 35-40 minutes. When cool, sprinkle with
powdered sugar.

Cherry Pineapple Cabana Cake

1 (20-oz.) can crushed pineapple, do not drain 1 (21-oz.) ca Lucky Leaf
Regular

1 package yellow cake mix or Premium Cherry Pie Filling

1 cup butter, melted 1 (7-oz.) bag coconut, shredded

1 cup macadamia nuts, chopped

Preheat oven to 350°. Lighty grease a 9x13" baking pan. Layer crushed
pineapple, then pie filling. Sprinkle dry cake mix over the top,
smoothing evenly and covering the top. Pour meltd butter on top,
covering evenly. Finish iwth coconut and nuts. Bake for 50-60 minutes
until brown o top and bubbly. Let cool 30 minutes. Serve warm or cooled.

Fruit Cocktail Cake

Mama Franklin

2 eggs 1 ½ cup sugar

1 teaspoon salt 1 ½ teaspoon soda

1 can fruit cocktail 2 ½ cups flour(unsifted)

Beat eggs lightly; add sugar; blend coctail; add dry ingredients. Pour
into 2 or 3 greased and floured cake pans. Bake at 300º for 45 minutes.
Spread with filling.

Filling:

1 stick butter 1 cup sugar

½ cup milk 1 teaspoon vanilla

1 can coconut

In saucepan combine butter, sugar and milk. Cook to boiling; boil 5
minutes. Add vanilla and coconut. Spread icing over cooled cake layers.

Fig Preserve Cake

Ruth Stinson

1 ½ cups sugar 2 cups all-purpose flour

1 teaspoon soda 1 teaspoon salt

1 teaspoon nutmeg 1 teaspoon cinnamon

1 teaspoon allspice ½ teaspoon cloves

1 cup vegetable oil 3 eggs

1 cup buttermilk 1 tablespoon vanilla

1 cup fig preserves ½ cup pecans, chopped

Buttermilk Glaze

Combine dry ingredients. Add oil; beat well. Add eggs; beat well. Add
buttermilk and vanilla and mix thoroughly. Stir in preserves and pecans.
Bake in greased and floured tube pan for 1 hour and 15 minutes at 350º.
Cool 10 minutes; remove from pan. Pour warm *Buttermilk Glaze* over
care.

*Buttermilk Glaze:*

¼ cup buttermilk ½ cup sugar

1 ½ teaspoons cornstarch ¼ cup butter

1 ½ teaspoons vanilla

Combine buttermilk, sugar, cornstarch and butter; bring to boil. Remove
from heat. Cool slightly; stir in vanilla. Drizzle or spread over cake.

Key Lime Cake

1 box lemon cake mix ¼ cup orange juice

1 box lime jello 4 tablesoons confectioners sugar

1 ½ cups vegetable oil ½ cup Key Lime juice

5 eggs Cream Cheese Icing

Mix cake mix, jello, oil, eggs and orange juice; beat two to three
minutes at medium speed. Pour into 3 round, greased and floured cake
pans. Bake at 350º about 25 minutes To glaze, mix confectioner\'s sugar
and lime juice. While layers are still warm, drizzle glaze over layers.
Frost each layer with *Cream Cheese Icing* as you stack them.

*Cream Cheese Icing*:

1 box confectioner\'s sugar 1 (8-oz) package cream cheese, softened

(minus amount used for glaze) 1 stick butter, softened

1 teaspoon vanilla

Cream together butter and cream cheese; blen in sugar and vanilla. Ice
cakewhen cooled completely.

Layer Fruit Cake

Virginia Taylor

1 cup raisins 2 cups sugar

1 cup butter 1 cup blackberry jelly

1 ½ cups coconut 3 cups flour

1 teaspoon allspice or vanilla 3 eggs, well beaten

1 cup buttermilk 1 teaspoon baking soda

1 cup English walnuts, chopped Filling

Cream sugar and butter; add eggs and mix well. Add jelly, coconut and
buttermilk. Add small amount of the flour to raisins and nuts to coat
them (this prevents these from settling to bottom of cake pans.) Add
coated raisins and nuts, remaining flour, allspice (unless using
vanilla) and soda to mixture. Mix well. Pour into 3 greased and floured
cake pans. Bake at 350º about 40 minutes. Cool layers. Spread filling
between each of the 3 layers.

Filling:

2 cups sugar 1/2 cup milk

1 cup butter

Combine all ingredients in saucepan and heat to boiling. Boil (stirring
constantly) until temperature reaches between 235-237º.

Aubret H. White\'s Christmas Fruit Cake

Listed in Montgomery Advertiser 2012

2 pounds raisins (mix colors) 2//3 pound candied orange peel

1/3 pound candied lemon peel 1 pound preserved figs

1 pound candied pineapple 1 pound candied cherries

1 pound dried mixed fruit 2 pounds nuts (any combination of black

4 cups all-purpose flour walnuts, hickory nuts, hazel nuts,

3/4 pound butter almonds, Brazil nuts, pecans but at least 1 pound light
brown sugar one pound of black walnuts and hickory

1 dozen eggs nuts)

½ cup clear Karo syrup ¼ cup honey

¼ cup molasses or dark Karo syrup 2 teaspoons nutmeg

3 teaspoons cinnamon 1 teaspoons cloves

1 teaspoon bakingsoda 2 teaspoons baking powder

1 (8-oz.) glass mixed fruit juice, 4 or 5 kinds is better

Chip all fruit and nuts into small pieces, and set aside. In a mixing
bowl, sift together flour, soda and baking powder. Add all spices to
flour mixture. Flour all fruit and nuts with ½ of flour mixture in
separate containers. In a mixing bowl, cream sugar and butter. Beat eggs
well, and add them to the sugar-butter mixture. Add syrup and fruit
juice. Using a large mixing bowl, slowly add remaining flour, floured
nuts and floured fruit to butter-sugar mixture. Mix well until all flour
is dissolved. Heat oven to 250º. Bake in any size cake pans. For large
cake, bake for about 2 hours or until done. For smaller cakes (about 1
pound each), bake 1 to 1 ½ hours, depending on oven.

Icebox Fruit Cake\*\*

Louise Windham (Eze)

2 cups vanilla wafers, crumbs 1 can Eagle brand milk

2 cups chopped pecans 2 cups raisins

1 box dates, pitted and chopped

Add all ingredients. (This is so sticky that you will need to work with
clean hands until everythng is mixed well.) I divide this into either
thirds or fourths, but it can be divided into 2 logs. Take sheet of
waxed paper and place the desired amount in middle of paper. Work into
log (about 2-3\" in diameter. Roll in wax paper to create log. Seal in
foil; refrigerate. Make at least a day or two before you need it. This
keeps in refrigerator a couple of weeks.

\*\*Eze always made this at Christmas; it was one of our favorites. It
is more like a candy than cake.

Miracle Fruit Cake\*\*

Miss Hannah\'s recipe via Shirley Ferguson

24-oz. Pitted dates 1 lb. Candied pineapple

1 lb whole candied cherries 2 cups plain flour

2 teaspoons baking powder ½ teaspoon salt

4 eggs 1 cup sugar

8 cups pecans, chopped or broken

Cut up dates and pineapple in large bowl. Add cherries cut in half.
Lighly spoon baking powder, flour and salt into sifter. Sift into fruit.
Stir. Beat eggs til frothy. Gradually beat in sugar. Add to fruit
mixture. Mix with wooden spoon if you can, but at this point you may
need to use hands. Add pecans\...mix well til batter is coated.

Take 2- 9x5x3 loaf pans or 7 mini pans and line with parchment paper
strips. Pack fruit cake into pans with hands. Bake at 275º for 1 ½ hours
for large pans or 40 minutes for small pans. Batter will look dry, but
will not brown. DO NOT OVERBAKE! Remove from oven. Let stand about 20
minutes to cool. Peel off paper. Wrap in foil. Keep in refrigerator. Can
be frozen.

Miss Hannah was Shirley Ferguson\'s Bible study teacher for 10 years in
Atlanta. Shirley wrote a book about Miss Hannah\'s life.

I don\'t usually like fruitcake, but this is delicious and the best
fruitcake I have ever eaten.

Lemon Cake

Pat Hill

Make a yellow cake mix according to directions. Bake in 2 round cake
pans. Let cool.

Filling:

½ cup flour 1 cup sugar

¼ teaspoon salt ¼ cup water

1 ¼ cup orange juice ¼ cup lemonjuice

3 egg yolks

Mix dry ingredients; then add water and mix well. Add both orange and
lemon juices. Cook over heat until mixture thickens. Stir often Beat egg
yolks slightly. Remove mixture from stove and add eggs quickly as you
stir. Return to heat and cook several minutes longer. LET COOL. This
filling goes between the cake layers.

Frosting:

1 cup sugar 1/3 cup hot water

¼ teaspoon cream of tarter 3 egg whites

1/8 teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon vanilla

Combine above ingredients (except vanilla and egg whites) and cook to a
soft ball stage (230º). DO NOT STIR sugar mixture as it cooks. Meantime
beat egg whites until stiff. Add the cooked syrup to beaten egg whites
along with vanilla. Beat until fluffy. This is a form of minue frosting
Frost outside of cake. Garnish as desired. This frosting only holds up
for a day or two; then it begins to break down.

Nutty Orange Coffee Cake

¾ cup sugar ½ cup pecans, chopped

2 teaspoons grated orange rind 4-oz. Reduced-fat cream cheese

2 (11-oz) cans refrigerated buttermilk biscuits ½ cup butter, melted

1 cup sifted powdered sugar 2 tablespoons fresh orange juice

Combine sugar, pecans and orange rind in a small bowl; set aside. Place
about 3/4 teaspoon cream cheese in center of each biscuit; fold biscuit
in half over cheese, pressing edges to seal. Dip biscuits in melted
butter, and dredge in sugar mizxture; place biscuits, curved side down,
in a single laer in curves of a lightly greased 12-cup Bundtpan, spacing
evenly (do not stack). Place any remaining biscuits about center of tube
of pan, filling in spaces, if necessary. Drizzle any remaining butter
over biscuits; sprinkle with any remaining sugar mixture. Bake at 350º
for 35-40 minutes or until done. Immediately invert onto a serving
plate. Combine powdered sugar and orange juice, stirring well; drizzle
over warm coffee cake. Serve immediately. Yield 1 (10 inch) coffee cake.

Orange Slice Cake

Lola Tarrants

2 cups sugar 1 cup butter

5 eggs ½ teaspoon salt

1 tablespoon vanilla 2 cups pecans

½ cup candied cherries 1 can coconut

4 cups flour 1 teaspoon baking soda

¾ cup buttermilk 1 lb. Orange slice candy

Boiled Syrup

Save ¼ cup flour to roll fruit in (this keeps it from settling to the
bottom of the pan.

Cream butter and sugar. Add eggs one at a time and beat. Sift remaining
flour, salt and soda together. Add vanilla, flour and buttermilk
alternately. Roll fruit, pecans, cherries and coconut in flour. Add to
mixture. Bake in greased and floured bundt pan or loaf pans. Bake at
300º for 2 hours. Remove cake to serving platter. Brush *Boiled Syrup*
on cake.

Boiled Syrup:

½ cup confectioner\'s syrup ¼ cup lemon juice

¼ cup orange juice 1 teaspoon grated orange peel

Combine ingredients and boil 5 minutes.

Orange-Buttermilk Cupcakes with Cream Cheese Frosting

1 cup all-purpose flour 1 cup whole-wheat pastry flour

1 teaspoon baking powder ½ teaspoon baking soda

½ teaspoon salt ¾ cup granulated sugar

½ cup nonfat buttermilk ½ cup frozen orange juice concentrate

1/3 cup canola oil 2 large eggs

1 teaspoon vanilla Frosting

Heat ovento 350º. Line 18 muffin tins with cupcake liners. To make
cupcakes, in a medium bowl whisk together both flours, the baking
powder, baking soda and salt. In another medium bowl, combine granulated
sugar, buttermilk, orange juice concentrate, oil and eggs. Whisk
thoroughly until the orange juice concentrate is dissolved Add the wet
ingredients to the dry and fold just until blended. Divide the batter
among the 18 cups (each should be about ½ full). Bake until the tops
spring back when lightly touched and a toothpick inserted at the center
comes our clean, 18-22 minutes. Cool the pans on a rack until the
cupcakes are cool enough to handle Remove the cupcakes fromthe pan and
cool completely on a rack before frostiing, about 40 minutes.

Frosting:

8-oz. Reduced-fat cream cheese, softened 1/3 cup powdered sugar

2 tablespoons frozen orange juice concentrate

In a medium bowl, combine cream cheese, sugar and orange juice. Use an
electric mixer to beat until smooth and creamy (175 calories per
cupcake)

Pineapple Cake #1

1 Duncan Hines Golden Butter Cake Mix 4 eggs

½ cup Wesson Oil 1 can Mandarin organges with juice

Mix well and bake in 3 8 or 9\" round cake pans Bake at 325º for 30
minutes. Cool cake completely. Frost each layer and side of cake with
Frosting.

*Frosting*:

1 large Cool Whip 1 small package vanilla instant pudding mix

1 large can crushed pineapple with juice

Sprinkle pudding mix into cool whip; fold in crushed pineapple. Frost
cake and refrigerate.

Pinepple Cake #2

1 box deluxe yellow cake mix 1 small can crushed pineapple

1 cup sugar 1 small package instant vanilla pudding

1- 9-oz. container dessert whipped topping Chopped pecans

Coconut

Prepare cake mix and bake in 13x9\" pan at 350º. Combine undrained
pineapple and sugar and boil 2-3 minutes. Pour hot mixture over hot
cake. Let cool. Make pudding per package directions, spread over cooled
cake. Top with whipped topping and sprinkle with pecans and coconut.
Chill until pudding firms. Store in refrigerator. Serves 20.

Plum Cake

2 cups self-rising flour 2 cups sugar

1 teaspoon cloves 1 teaspoon cinnamon

¼ teaspoon salt 3 eggs

2 jars baby food plums 1 cup vegetable oil

Combine sugar and oil; mix well; add eggs, one at a time; mix well. In
separate bowl combine flour, cloves, salt and cinnamon. Add flour and
plums alternately to the sugar mixture. Bake in greased and floured
bundt pan or loaf pans at 350º for 1 hour (less if using loaf pans.)

Prune Cake

Olivet Willis

2 cups self-rising flour 2 cups sugar

1 teaspoon cinnamon 1 teaspoon nutmeg

1 teaspoon allspice 1 cup vegetable oil

3 eggs 1 (8-oz.) jar prunes & tapioca

1 cup pecans (or other nuts), chopped

Mix sugar, oil and eggs. Combine dry ingredients. Add dry ingredients
and prunes to mixture. Bake in greased and floured tube pan at 350º for
45 minutes to 1 hour.

Strawberry Dream Cake

1 (18 ½-oz.) package white cake mix 1 (6-oz.) package strawberry jello

2 tablespoons flour ½ cup water

4 eggs ½ (10-oz.) box frozen, sliced strawberries,

¾ cup vegetable oil thawed

1 teaspoon vanilla

Combine cake mix, jello, flour, water and eggs; beat 2 minutes. Add
strawberries with syrup to batter and beat 1 miinute. Add oil; beat one
minute. Grease and flour (or spray with Baker's Spray) pans. Pour into 2
(9") cake pans or into cupcake pans (24-36). Bake at 325°or 25-35
minutes (not as long for cupcakes -- about 18 minutes). Do not overbake
cake so it will remain tender and not dry. When cake is cool frost with
*Strawberry Icing.*

Stawberry Icing:

½ cup butter 1 box (16-oz.) powdered sugar

½ (10-oz.) box frozen, sliced strawberries, ½ teaspoon vanilla

****Thawed

Beat butter until smooth; add powdered sugar alternately with remaining
strawberries and syrup until smooth. (If icing begins to get too watery,
don't add all the syrup.) Add vanilla. If icing is too dry, thin with
milk.

Strawberry Cake

Cake:

1 box plain white cake mix 1 cup fresh or frozen strawberries, chopped

1 small box strawberry Jell-O 4 whole eggs

¾ cup oil

Mix all cake ingredients. Makes 2 layers. Bake at 350° until done. Use
toothpick test.

Icing:

½ cup fresh or frozen strawberries, chopped 1 stick butter, softened

1 box powdered sugar

Cream butter; add powdereded sugar and strawberries. Ice cool cake
layers.

Pink Valentine Cake (Strawberry)

1 (18 ½-oz.) box white cake mix 1 (3-oz.) package strawberry Jell-O

3 tablespoons flour 1 cup vegetable oil

1/3 cup water 4 eggs

1 cup strawberries, mashed (sweetened if fresh ones are used)

Mix cake mix, Jell-O, flour, oil and water in mixer. Add eggs, one at a
time. Fold in strawberries last. Bake in greased and floured tub pan for
one hoour at 325°. Frost with icing after cake is cooled.

*Icing::*

1 (16-oz.) box confectioners' sugar ½ cup butter

1 cup mashed strawberries

Mix sugar and butter well in mixer. Add strawberries last. Be sure they
are well-drained or icing witll hav a curdled look.

Banana Split Cake

3 cups all-purpose flour 2 cups sugar

1 teaspoon baking soda ¼ teaspoon salt

3 large eggs 1 cup vegetable oil

½ cup buttermilk 2 cups mashed bananas (about 5 medium)

1 cup chopped pecans 1 cup flaked coconut

1 ½ teaspoons vanilla 1 (20-oz.) can crushed pineapple, undrained

1 (16-oz.) jar maraschino cherries, drained 1 (8-oz.) package cream
cheese, softened

1 ½ cups powdered sugar

Garnishes: toasted flake coconut, long-stemmed maraschino cherries,
grated milk chocolate, chopped pecans, hot fudge sauce

Combine flour, sugar, baking soda and salt in a large bowl. Stir
together eggs, oil and buttermilk. Add oil mixture to flour mixture,
stirring just until dry ingredients are moistened. Stir in bananas,
pecans, coconut and vanilla. Drain pineapple, reserving 2 tablespoons
liquid. Gently press pineapple and cherries between layers of paper
towels. Chop cherries. Stir pineapple and cherries into banana mixture.
Spoon into a greased and floured 10" tube pan. Bake at 350°for 1 hour or
until a wooden pick inserted in center comes our clean. Cool in pan on a
wire rack 10-15 minutes; remove from pan, and cool cake on wire rack.

Beat cream cheese at medium speed with an electric mixer until smooth.
Gradually add powdered sugar, beating at low speed until blended. Stir
in reserved pineapple juice. Pour over cake; garnish, if desired.

Pineapple Dump Cake

> Sheila Ramsey

2 cups sugar 2 cups flour

2 eggs 2 teaspoons soda

¼ teaspoon salt 1 can (20-oz.) crushed pineapple

Combine all ingredients and mix. Pour into greased pan and bake at 350°
for 30-35 minutes. Cool and frost with *Icing*.

*Icing:*

1 (3-oz.) package cream cheese, softened ¾ stick melted and cooled
butter

2 teaspoons vanilla 2 cups confectioners' sugar

Cream butter and cream cheese; blend sugar until smooth. Add vanilla.
(Sheila usually doubles the icing recipe, but for a cake baked in 9x13"
pan, this icing should be plenty.) Spread icing over cooled cake.
