---
layout: recipe
title: "misc cakes"
category: "Cakes"
---

# Misc Cakes

Almond Poppyseed Cake

1 Duncan Hines Butter Cake Mix 4 eggs

¼ cup sugar ¼ cup water

¾ cup oil 1/8 teaspoon poppyseed

1 ½ teaspoon almond flavoring

Mix all ingredients and bake in a greased and floured bundt pan at 350º
for 35-40 minutes. Cool for 10 minutes. Remove from pan.

Coca-Cola Cake

Paula Branch

2 cups plain flour 2 cups sugar

2 sticks butter 3 tablespoons cocoa

1 cup coke 1 ½ cups marshmallows

½ cup buttermilk 1 teapoon vanilla

2 eggs 1 teaspoon baking soda

Coca-Cola Frosting

Mix flour and sugar; set aside. In saucepan on stove mix the butter,
cocoa, coke and marshmallows; bring to boil and stir constantly. Once
marshmallows dissolve, remove from heat and add flour/sugar mixture; add
buttermilk, vanilla, eggs and baking soda. Mix well and put in greased
13x9x2\" pan. Bake at 350º for 40 minutes or until done. Spread frosting
over hot cake.

*Coca-Cola Frosting*:

1 stick butter 6 Tablespoons Coca-Cola

3 Tablespoons cocoa 1 box powdered sugar, sifted

1 cup pecans

Melt butter; add Coca-Cola and cocoa and mix well. Add powdered sugar;
use electric mixer if needed to make smooth. Add pecans; mix and pour
over hot cake.

Sour Cream Coffee Cake

Marnee Bell

1 cup butter 2 cups sugar

2 eggs 2 cups flour

¼ teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon baking powder

1 cup sour cream

Cream butter, sugar and eggs together. Add sour cream. Combine flour,
salt and baking powder. Add to wet ingredients. Cook in bundt pan using
alternate layers of batter and topping making two layers of each.

Topping:

1 cup pecans ½ teaspoon cinnamon

2 tablespoons sugar

Bake at 350º for 55-60 minutes in greased cake pan. Dust with powdered
sugar. Let stand 24 hours. Freezes well.

White Layer Cake

Mama Franklin

6 egg whites 1 cup butter, softened

2 cups sugar ¾ cups milk

3 cups flour 2 teaspoons baking powder

¼ teaspoon salt

Cream butter and sugar. Add dry ingredients together. Add milk and flour
mixture alternately to creamed mixture. Beat egg whites until stiffly
beaten; fold into other mixture. Bake at 350º in greased and floured 8
or 9\" round pans (2 or 3 depending how thick you want the cake layers).
Cool on wire racks for 5 minutes; then take table knife and go around
edge between pan and cake and loose cake. Dump layers onto wire racks to
finish cooling. Frost with any desired frosting.

Lazy Daisy Oatmeal Cake

½ cup butter, softened ½ cup granulated sugar

½ cup brown sugar 1 egg

1 teaspoon vanilla 1 ½ cups all-purpose flour, sifted

½ teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon baking soda

1 teaspoon cinnamon ½ teaspoon nutmeg

1 cup milk 1 cup rolled oats (quick or regular -- dry)

Beat butter until creamy; add sugars gradually and beat until thoroughly
blended. Add vanilla and egg; beat well. Stir together flour, salt,
soda, cinnamon and nutmeg. Add to creamed mixture alternately with milk.
Stir in rolled oats. Pour batter into greased and floured 8\" square
glass baking dish. Bake in slow overn (325º) 40-45 minutes. Leave in
pan. When using metal pan, bake in moderate oven (350º). As soon as cake
is removed from oven spread with Coconut Icing.

*Coconut Icing*:

¼ cup butter, softened ½ cup brown sugar

3 tablespoons half and half ½ cup chopped nuts

2/3 cup flaked or shredded coconut

Combine ingredients; blend well. Spred evenly over cake when it is
removed from oven. Broil until frosting becomes bubbly. Serve warm or
cold.

Pudding Cake

1 (18.5 oz.) package cake mix, any flavor 2 packages (4-serving size)
Jell-O Brand

1 cup confectioner\'s sugar *Instant* Pudding, any flavor

4 cups milk

Prepare cake mix as directed on package, baking in a 13x9\" pan. Remove
from oven. Poke holes quickly down through caake with round handle of
wooden spoon at 1\" intervals (or use a plastic straw, using a turning
motion to make large holes).

*Only after poking holes*, combine pudding mix with sugar in large bowl.
Gradually stir in milk. Then beat at low speed of electric mixer for not
more than 1 minute (do not overbeat). Quickly, before pudding thickens,
pour about one-half of the *thin* pudding evenly over warm cake and into
the holes to make the stripes. Allow remaining pudding to thicken
slightly; then spoon over the top, swirling it to \"frost\" the cake.
Chill at least 1 hour. Store cake in refrigerator. Covder with plastic
wrap, if desired.

Pudding Cake

> Amy Windham

1 Pillsbury Pudding in the Mix chocolate ½ cup sugar

Cake mix 1 (3-oz.) instant pudding, vanilla or chocolate

¾ cup water ¾ cup vegetable oil

8 oz. Sour cream 4 eggs

1 ½ cup semi-sweet chocolate chips White/chocolate bark or powdered
sugar

Whisk cake mix, sugar and package of pudding together. Add water, oil,
sour cram and eggs; blend well with whisk. Stir in chocolate chips (or
combination of chocolate and white chocolate). Pour into greased and
floured bundt pan. Bake for 1 hour at 350° Frost with melted white
chocolate or powdered sugar icing (Powdered sugar and milk).

Sock-it-to-Me Cake

1 Duncan Hines Butter Cake Mix ¾ cup butter Wesson Oil (or vegetable
oil)

8 oz. Sour cream ½ cup sugar

4 eggs 3 tablespooons brown sugar

3 tablespoons cinnamon 1 pound caramels

1 cup milk Toasted pecans

Mix cake mix, oil, sour cream, sugar and eggs well. Pour ½ the batter in
greased and floured bundt pan. Mix cinnamon and brown sugar. Sprinkle
over the batter. Pour remainder of batter over sugar mixture. Take table
knife and cut (swirl) the batter slightly. Bake at 325° for 45 minutes
to 1 ½ hours until toothpick comes clean. Mix caramel and milk to make
sauce. When ready to serve cake, cut into slices; add warm caramel sauce
and sprinkle with toasted pecans. (Also vanilla ice cream can be added
before the caramel sauce and pecans to give scrumptious dessert!)

Zebra Icebox Cake

1 (3 3/4- oz.) package vanilla instant pudding 1 (4 1/2 --oz.) package
chocolate instant pudding

2 cups milk 1 (12-oz.) Cool Whip

32 square graham crackers

Prepare vanilla and chocolate instant pudding **separately**, slowly
beating each with 1 cup milk using rotary beater or at lowest speed of
electric mixer until well blended -- about 2 minutes. Let stand 5
minutes. Blend half of the Cool Whip into each of the puddings. Place a
layer of graham crackers on the bottom of an 8" square pan; spread with
half of the chocolate puddking. Repeat, alternating pudding flavors.
Chill at least 6 hours. Garish as desired. Cut into 12 servings.

Tea Cakes

2 eggs 1 cup sugar

1 cup butter, melted 2 teaspoons baking powder

4 tablespoons cream (milk) 2 ¼ cups all-purpose flour, sifter

2 teaspoons vanilla flour (enough to be able to roll

Add ingredients. Flour a surface covered in wax paper. Roll out and cut.
Bake at 350° until done.

Old Fashioned Southern Tea Cakes

1 ¼ cups all-purpose flour, sifted 1 cup sugar

¾ cup melted butter 1 ½ teaspoons vanilla

2 teaspoons baking powder 1 egg

Preheat oven to 350°. Mix all ingredinets together until moist. Roll out
dough on a floured surface and cut tea cakes to desired size. Bake until
done, depending on degree of thickness.

Joanne Perkins' Cake

> Joanne Perkins

1 Duncan Hines Deluyxe II Cake Mix 1 stick of butter, softened

1 egg 2 eggs

8 oz. Softened cream cheese 1 box (less ¼ cup) powdered sugar

Mix cake mx, butter, and 1 egg in dough form. Press into 9x13 pan. Mix 2
eggs, cream cheese and powdered sugar (less ¼ cup). Beat until smooth
and pour on top of cake mixture. Bake at 350° for 35 minutes. (It will
fall some when taken from the oven.) Spinkle ¼ cup powdered sugar on top
while hot. Cool before cutting into squares.

1-2-3 Cake

Mama Franklin

1 cup butter, softened 2 cups sugar

4 eggs 3 cups flour

1 cup milk ½ teaspoon salt

2 ½ teaspoons baking powder 1 tablespoon vanilla

Cream butterand sugar; beat in eggs, one at a time. Add flour and milk
alternately. Beat in vanilla. Bake at 350º in greased and floured 8 or
9\" round pans (2 or 3 depending how thick you want the cake layers).
Cool on wire racks for 5 minutes; then take table knife and go around
edge between pan and cake and loose cake. Dump layers onto wire racks to
finish cooling. Frost with any desired frosting.

Pecan Pie Cake

1 box yellow cakae or butter cake mix 1 egg

½ cup melted butter 1 ½ cup light corn syrup

3 eggs ½ cup dark brown sugar, packed

1 teaspoon vanilla 1 ½ cups chopped pecans

Preheat oven to 325°. Mix cake mix, 1 egg and melted butter until
well-blended. Reserve 2/3 cup of batter. Spread the remainder of batter
(that with egg and butter) into a greased 9x13 pan and bake 15 minutes
or until lightly browned.

Mix reserved batter with syrup, 3 eggs, brown sugar, vanilla and pecans.
Pour this mixture on top of crust and bake for 50-60 minutes.

Yellow Cake with Caramel Icing

1 cup butter 2 ½ cups sugar

4 eggs 3 cups all-purpose flour

1 cup buttermilk ½ teaspoon baking soda

1 tablespoon boiling water 1 teaspoon vanilla

Cream the butter and sugar. Add the eggs, one at a time, beating well
after each addition. Add flour and buttermilk alternately, beginning and
ending with flour. Dissolve baking soda in water and add to batter. Beat
well; then add vanilla. Pour batter into 1-9" greased and floured cake
pans. Bake at 325° for 35-40 minutes. Remove layers adn cool. Frost with
caramel icing. (Recipe follows.)

*Caramel Icing:*

2 ¼ cups sugar ½ cup butter

1 small can evaporated milk 1/3 cup powdered sugar

½ teaspoon vanilla

Brown ¼ cup sugar until dark brown in a heavy saucepan. Add butter and
melt. Add 1 cup sugar and mix well; then add milk. Bring to a boil. Add
remaining sugar. Boil to soft ball stage. Remove from heat and add
powdered sugar and vanilla. Beat with an electric mixer until it is a
spreading consistency. Frost cooled cake.

Thin-Layaer Cake (15 Layers)

Pansy Smith and Linda Lawless

1 Box yellow cake mix 1 ½ cups self-rising flour

1 cup sugar 2 cups milk (room temperature)

1 (8-oz.) carton sour cream 2 sticks butter (room temperature)

6 eggs (room temperature)

In mixing bowl cream butter and sugar until light and creamy. Beat in
one egg at a time. Stir together cake mix and flour with mixer on low
speed alternately add dry ingredients, milk and sour cream. Mix well.

Spray 8" cake pans with Baker's Joy cooking spray. Add ¾ cups to each
pan. Bake at 375° for 10 minutes. Cool and frost. Use 6 pans; bake three
pans at a time -- five times. No need to wash pans between bakings. Just
wipe them out; add more Baker's Joy and continue.

Yellow Cake with Caramel Icing #2

> Carol Nelson

1 Duncan Hines Butter Cake Mix 4 cups sugar

1 cup butter 1 small can evaporated milk

Small amount of milk

Bake cake according to directions on box. (2 or 3 layers)

Combine 3 ½ cups sugar, butter and milk (pur milk in measuring cup, fill
to 1 cup whole milk. Place in very heavy boiler. Before this mixture
comes to a boil, place ½ cup sugar in heavy iron skillet and melt. Bring
mixture in boiler to a full boil, stirring constantly. Pour melted sugar
into boiler mixutre and bring to a full boil once again. Cook to soft
ball stage. Pour into bowl and cool to barely warm. Beat with mixter
until creamy and spreading consistancy. If it seems a little thick, add
few drops of milk. Spread on prepared cake layers. See Icings and
Frostings - Caramel Icing.

LANE CAKE

3 cups flour

2 cups sugar

1 cup country butter

8 egg whites, stiffly beaten

3 tsp. baking powder

1 tsp. salt

1 tsp. vanilla

1 cup sweet milk

Cream butter, sugar, add dry ingredients and flour and milk,
alternately.  Beat until smooth, add vanilla, and fold in beaten egg
whites.  Bake 325 (I am sure that is three pans)

FILLING:

2 cups sugar

1 cup butter

8 egg yolks, beaten

1 fresh coconut

2 cups chopped pecans

2 cups raisins

Cream butter and sugar and heat.  Add beaten egg yolks, cook until
thicken.  Beat until cool, add nuts, coconut and raisins.  (My memory
tells me she split the cake into 6 layers, and iced with all of this
delicious topping.  I have never made this myself, but one of these days
I am going to do it!  You know how that goes.)
