---
layout: recipe
title: "poundcakes"
category: "Cakes"
---

# Poundcakes

Poundcake #1

Mama Franklin

½ pound butter 1 ¾ cups granulated sugar

5 eggs 2 teaspoons lemon juice

1 teaspoon vanilla 2 cups flour

Cream butter with vanilla, lemon juice and sugar until fluffy. Separate
eggs and beat egg yolks until thick and add to creamed mixture. Beat egg
whites until stiffly beaten; add to cream mixture; mix thoroughly. Fold
in flour and beat vigorously 15 minutes or longer. (Mama Franklin
didn\'t have a mixer; so she did this by hand. It wil probably take less
time with a mixeer.) Bake in greased and floured tube or bundt pan for
about 1 hour at 300º. Never open the oven while baking a poundcake that
is, not until done.

Poundcake #2

2 cups flour 1 2/3 cups granulated sugar

5 large eggs 1 teaspoon lemon flavoring

1 teaspoon vanilla flavoring 2 ¼ sticks butter

1 heaping teaspoon solid Crisco

Cream butter, crisco and sugar. Add eggs, one at a time, alternating
with flour. Finish with flour. Add flavorings. Mix well. Bake in greased
and tube fluted or bundt pan for 1 hour at 325º.

Poundcake #3

3 sticks butter 3 cups granulated sugar

5 eggs 3 cups flour

½ teaspoon baking powder 1 teaspoon vanilla

1 cup milk

Cream butter and sugar. Add eggs, one at a time. Mix flour and baking
powder together. Alternate flour and milk, adding to cream mixture. Mix
well. Add vanilla and mix well. Bake in greased and floured tube or
bundt pan for 1 hour and 15 minutes at 325º.

Poundcake #4

Trish Partridge

2 cups flour 2 cups granulated sugar

6 eggs 2 sticks butter

¾ teaspoon vanilla ¾ teaspoon almond flavoring

Mix butter and sugar. Add eggs, one at a time, alternating with flour.
Add flavorings and mixwell. Bake in greased and floured tube or bundt
pan for 1 hour at 350º

Old-Fashioned Poundcake

2 cups butter (4 sticks) 4 cups sifted confectioner\'s sugar

6 eggs 2 teaspoons vanilla

1 teaspooon almond extract 4 cups sifted cake flour

½ teaspoon salt

Preheat oven to 350º. Cream butter and gradually add sugar; continue
beating until well-blended. Beat in eggs, one at a time. Blend in
flavorings. Combine flour and salt; gradually add to creamed mixture,
beating until thoroughly combined. Spread in buttered and floured tube
pan. Cut through batter with knife (this takes out air bubbles.) Bake
for 65-70 minutes. Cool in pan on wire rack for 15 minutes. Remove cake
and cool completely.

Chocolate Poundcake

1 cup butter ¼ cup shortening

3 cups sugar 3 cups cake flour

4 tablespoons cocoa powder ½ teaspoon baking powder

Pinch of salt 1 cup milk

5 eggs 1 tablespoons vanilla

1 cup choppped nuts, optional

Cream butter and shortening. Add sugar gradually. Sift dry ingredients
and add alternately with milk. Add eggs, one at a time; then add vanilla
and nuts. Bake in a greased and floured 10" tube pan at 325° for 80
minutes. After cake is cool, frost with icing.

Icing:

1 (16-oz.) box confectioners' sugar ½ cup butter, softened

4-5 tablespoons cocoa 6 tablespoons milk (or mild coffee)

Mix all ingredients together. Creeam well spread over cooled cake.

Whip Cream Pound Cake

Betty Speed

2 sticks butter 3 cups granulated sugar

6 eggs 3 cups Swans Down Cake Flour, sifted

½ pint whipping cream, do not whip 1 ½ teaspoon vanilla

Cream butter and sugar. Beat one minute. Add eggs, one at a time and
beat well after each addition. Alternate flour and whipping cream adding
to creamed mixture. Add vanilla. Put in tube cake pan that has been
sprayed with Baker\'s Joy Spray (it has flour in it). Place in cold oven
and bake 1 hour at 325º. DO NOT OPEN OVEN UNTIL DONE.

Coconut Poundcake

Mrs. Fob James (Bobbie) -- Wife of Governor of Alabama

1 cup butter ½ cup shortening

2 ½ cups sugar 5 eggs, separated

3 ½ cups cake flour ¼ teaspoon salt

1 teaspooon baking powder 1 teaspoon coconut extract

1 cup milk 1 (7-oz.) package frozen coconut, thawed

Cream butter, shortening and sugar. Add egg yolks, one at a time. Sift
dry ingredients together. Add flavoring to milk. Add dry ingredients to
creamed mixture, alternating with milk mixture. Add coconut. Fold in
stiffly beaten egg whites. Pour into greased and floured 10" tube pan.
Bake at 325° for 1 hour and 15 minutes. Col in pan about 10 minutes.
Freexzes well.

Sour Cream Poundcake #1

> Orin Goocher

½ lb. Butter 2 cups sugar

6 eggs 3 cups (heaping) plain flour (sifted)

¼ teaspoon baking powder ¾ cup sour cream

½ teaspoon vanilla ½ cup milk

Bakers' Joy helper spray

Have all ingredients at room temperature. Mix butter and sugar until
creamy. Add eggs (one at a time) and beat well. Add 2 cups of flour and
baking powder; mix well. Add sour cream and mix. Add last cu0p of flour
with vanilla and milk. Mix well. Spray tube or fluted pan with Bakers'
Helper (this is oil and flour and keeps the cake from sticking to pan).
Cook for 1 hour and 20 minutes at 325°. DO NOT OPEN OVEN UNTIL CAKE IS
DONE! Let cake cool about 5-10 minutes and then remove from pan.

Sour Cream Poundcake #2

1 cup butter 3 cups sugar

1 tablespoon vanilla ¼ teaspoon baking soda

3 cups flour, sifted 6 eggs

1 cup sour cream

Cream butter and sugar; add vanilla. Mix soda with four, reserving ¼ cup
flour. Alternate one egg at at time and add with flour to cake mix. Add
sour cream. Add remaining flour. Bake in greased and floured tube pan
for 1 ½ hours at 325°.

5 Flavored Pound Cake

Pat Hill

3 cups sugar ½ cup crisco

2 sticks butter 5 eggs

3 cups Swansdown Cake Flour 1 cup milk

½ teaspoon baking powder 1 teaspoon each: lemon, vanilla, coconut,

butter and rum flavorings

Cream sugar, crisco and butter together until smooth. Add eggs, one at a
time. Sift together flour, baking powder. Add dry mixutre to the sugar
mixture. Aadd milk and five flavors. Grease and flour pan. Bake at 325°
for 1 hour and 30 minutes. When cake is cool, cover with glaze.

*Glaze*:

1 cup sugar ½ cup water

1 teaspoon of each of 5 flavorings

Make glaze by combining all ingredients in small pan and bring to a
boil. Take cake out of pan; poke holes in top of cake with skewers.
Slowly pour glaze on cake.

Note: This is Mary Lou: I made this once but found the flavorings too
strong for my taste. I think it would be better to have vanilla and
lemon only.
