Red Velvet Cake\* #1

From: \"The Cake Mix Doctor Returns\" Cookbook

1- 18.5 oz package plain butter reciipe golden 2 ½ tablespons
unsweetened cocoa powder

cake mix 1-1/3 cups buttermilk

1 (1-oz.) bottle red food coloring 1 stick butter, melted

3 large eggs 1 teaspoon vanilla

1 teaspoon baking soda 1 tablespoon distilled white vinegar

Cream cheese frosting

Place a rack in the center of the oven and preheat the oven to 350º.
Lightly grease 3- 9\" round cake pans with solid shortening, then dust
them with flour. Shake out the excess flour and set the pans aside.

Placethe cake mix, cocoa powder, buttermilk, food coloring, butter,
eggs, vanilla and the baking powder and vinegar in a large mixing bowl
and beat with an electric mixer on low speed untill the ingredients are
mixed, 1 minute.

Stop the machine and scrape down the side of the bowl with a rubber
spatula. Increasethe mixer speed to medium and beat for 2 minutes
longer, scraping down the side of the bowl again if needed. The batter
should look well blended. Divide the cake batter evenly among the 3
prepared cake pans; about 1 ½ cups of batter per pan, smoothing the
toops with the rubber spatula. Place the pans in the oven. If your oven
is not large enough to hold 3 pans on the center rack, place2 poans on
that rack and 1 in the center of the rack above.

Bake the cake layers until they just start to pull away from the sidesof
the pans and the tops springback when lightly pressed with a finger; 17
to 21 minutes. The cake layer on the higher rack may bake faster, so
test if for doneness first. Transfer the cake pans to wire racks and let
the cake layers cool for 5 minutes. Run a dinner knife aound the edge of
each cake layer and give the pans a good shake to loosen the cakes.
Invert each layer onto a wire rack, then invert it again onto another
rack so the cakes are right side up. Let the layers cool completely, 15
minutes longer.

Meanwhile, make the cream cheese frosting.

*Cream Cheese Frosting*:

1 (8-oz.) package reduced-fat cream cheese, 1 stick butter, softened

softened 1 teaspoon vanilla

4 cups confectioner\'s sugar, sifted

Place the cream cheese and butter in a large mixing bowl and beat with
an electric mixer on high speed until light and fluffy, 1 to 2 minutes.
Stop the machine and scrape down the side of the bowl with a rubber
spatula. Add 1 teaspoon vanilla and confectioner\'s sugaar and beat on
medium speed until well combined. Increase the mixer speed to high and
beat the frosting for 1 minute longer.

To assemble the cake, transfer one cake layer, right sideup to a serving
platter. Spread the top wiith some of the frjosting. Place a second cake
layer, right sideup, on top of the first and frost the top. Repeat the
process with the third layer. Frost the side of the cake with a thin
coat just to seal the crumbs. Use the remaining frosting to go back over
this and liberally frost the side, working with smooth, clean strokes.
To make slicing easier, placethe uncovered cake in the refrigerator
until the frosting sets, 20 minutes.

\*This is the most detailed recipe for baking a cake I have ever seen,
but all the directions given for baking it apply to just about every
layer cake with frosting you will make.

Red Velvet Cake #2

2 ½ cups plain flour or cake flour 2 cups sugar

1 teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons cocoa

2 bottles (1 oz.) of red food coloring 1 teaspooon white vinegar

1 teaspoon baking soda 2 eggs

1 cup buttermilk 2 cups oil (1 ½ cups works as well)

1 teaspoon vanilla

Cream sugar and oil; add eggs and beat well. Sift flour, salt, soda and
cocoa. Add vinegar and food coloring to cream mixture. Add flour
mixture, alternating with buttermilk and ending with four. Add vanilla.
Bake at 350º for 35 minutes in 2- 8 or 9\" round cake pans. Frost layers
and sides with frosting.

*Frosting*:

1 (8-oz.) cream cheese, softened 1 stick butter, softened

1 box confectioner\'s sugar, sifted 1 cup pecans

1 teaspoon vanilla

Cream butter and cream cheese. Gradually beat in sugar with electric
mixer until well blended. Add vanilla and mix. Stir in pecans.

Quick Red Velvet Cake #3

From: Heloise

1 box yellow cake mix (18.5 oz.)\* 5 eggs

½ cup oil 1 cup low-fat buttermilk (or regular)

2 tablespoons cocoa 2 ounces red food coloring

Combine cake mix with the eggs, oil, buttermilk and food coloring. ONLY
add the ingredients we list -- DO NOT add ingredients on the box mix.
Check the directions on the cake box to see how long you need to beat
the ingredients together before baking. Bake according to cake-box
directions. Frost with a canned cream cheese frosting.

\* You can use a chocolate mix instead of yellow, but leave out the
cocoa mentioned in the recipe.
